 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 


 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 Dragon Skin™ 10 MEDIUM Product Information | Smooth-On, Inc. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 


 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 -->
 
 -->

 -->
 
 
 -->

 -->
 
 
 -->

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main Menu 
 Home  › 
 Applications  › 
 Products  › 
 How-To  › 
 Support  › 
 Material Calculators  › 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ‹ Back to Main Menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Contents 
 Overview 
 Features Gallery Instructions How-To Articles Related Products 
 
 Purchase 
 USA Distributor  › 
 Global Distributor  › 
 Smooth-On Store  › 
 -->
 
 


 
 Dragon Skin™ 10 MEDIUM 
 
 
 
 *NOTE: Product Packaging May Vary 
 › Technical Bulletin and SDS 
 
 Dragon Skin™ silicones are high performance platinum cure liquid silicone compounds that are used for a variety of applications ranging from creating skin effects and other movie special effects to making production molds for casting a variety of materials. Because of the superior physical properties and flexibility of Dragon Skin™ rubbers, they are also used for medical prosthetics and cushioning applications. Dragon Skin™ rubbers are also used for a variety of industrial applications and have a service temperature range of a constant -65°F to +450°F (-53°C to +232°C) 



 
 Features 
 Time Tested, Versatile Special Effects Material – Soft, super-strong and stretchy, Dragon Skin™ 10 MEDIUM is used around the world to make spectacular skin and creature effects. An infinite number of color effects can be achieved by adding Silc Pig™ silicone pigments or Cast Magic™ effects powders. Cured rubber can also be painted with the Psycho Paint™ system. Cured material is skin safe and certified by an independent laboratory. 

 Easy To Use – Dragon Skin™ silicones are mixed 1A:1B by weight or volume. Liquid rubber can be thinned with Silicone Thinner™ or thickened with THI-VEX™ . Rubber cures at room temperature (73°F/23°C) with negligible shrinkage. Vacuum degassing is recommended to minimize air bubbles in cured rubber. 

 Dragon Skin™ 10 silicones are Flame Rated to UL-94 HB specification and they meet the B1 classification for the GB 8624-2012 Fire Test to Building Material and Products (does not include ‘NV’ formulas). 

 › Click here for more Dragon Skin™ silicone products. 



 
 Gallery 
 
 
 839046532 
 
 
 

 
 Instructions 
 Safety – Use in a properly ventilated area (“room size” ventilation). Wear safety glasses, long sleeves and rubber gloves to minimize contamination risk. Wear vinyl gloves only. Latex gloves will inhibit the cure of the rubber. Store and use material at room temperature (73°F/23°C). Warmer temperatures will drastically reduce working time and cure time. Storing material at warmer temperatures will also reduce the usable shelf life of unused material. These products have a limited shelf life and should be used as soon as possible. Mixing containers should have straight sides and a flat bottom. Mixing sticks should be flat and stiff with defined edges for scraping the sides and bottom of your mixing container. 

 Cure Inhibition – Addition-cure silicone rubber may be inhibited by certain contaminants in or on the pattern to be molded resulting in tackiness at the pattern interface or a total lack of cure throughout the mold. Latex, tin-cure silicone, sulfur clays, certain wood surfaces, newly cast polyester, epoxy, tin cure silicone rubber or urethane rubber may cause inhibition. If compatibility between the rubber and the surface is a concern, a small-scale test is recommended. Apply a small amount of rubber onto a non-critical area of the pattern. Inhibition has occurred if the rubber is gummy or uncured after the recommended cure time has passed. Because no two applications are quite the same, a small test application to determine suitability for your project is recommended if performance of this material is in question. 

 To prevent inhibition, one or more coatings of a clear acrylic lacquer applied to the model surface is usually effective. Allow any sealer to thoroughly dry before applying rubber. Note: Even with a sealer, platinum silicones will not work with modeling clays containing heavy amounts of sulfur. Do a small scale test for compatibility before using on your project. 

 Applying A Release Agent - Although not usually necessary, a release agent will make demolding easier when pouring into or over most surfaces. Ease Release™ 200 is a proven release agent for making molds with silicone rubber. Mann Ease Release™ products are available from Smooth-On or your Smooth-On distributor. IMPORTANT: To ensure thorough coverage, lightly brush the release agent with a soft brush over all surfaces of the model. Follow with a light mist coating and let the release agent dry for 30 minutes. If there is any question about the effectiveness of a sealer/release agent combination, a small-scale test should be made on an identical surface for trial. 

 Measuring and Mixing - Before you begin, pre-mix Part B thoroughly. After dispensing required amounts of Parts A and B into mixing container (1A:1B by volume or weight), mix thoroughly for 3 minutes making sure that you scrape the sides and bottom of the mixing container several times. After mixing parts A and B, vacuum degassing is recommended to eliminate any entrapped air in liquid rubber. Your vacuum pump must pull a minimum of 29 inches of mercury (or 1 Bar / 100 KPa). Leave enough room in container for material expansion. Vacuum material until it rises, breaks and falls. Vacuum for 1 minute after material falls. 

 For best results , pour your mixture in a single spot at the lowest point of the containment field. Let the rubber seek its level up and over the model. A uniform flow will help minimize entrapped air. The liquid rubber should level off at least 1/2” (1.3 cm) over the highest point of the model surface. 

 Curing / Post Curing - Allow rubber to cure for 5 hours at room temperature (73°F/23°C) before demolding. Do not cure rubber where temperature is less than 65°F/18°C. Optional: Post curing the mold will aid in quickly attaining maximum physical and performance properties. After curing at room temperature, expose the rubber to 176°F/80°C for 2 hours and 212°F/100°C for one hour. Allow mold to cool to room temperature before using. 

 If Using As A Mold - When first cast, silicone rubber molds exhibit natural release characteristics. Depending on what is being cast into the mold, mold lubricity may be depleted over time and parts will begin to stick. No release agent is necessary when casting wax or gypsum. Applying a release agent such as Ease Release™ 200 (available from Smooth-On) prior to casting polyurethane, polyester and epoxy resins is recommended to prevent mold degradation. 

 Thickening Dragon Skin™ Silicones - THI-VEX™ is made especially for thickening Smooth-On’s silicones for vertical surface application (making brush-on molds). Different viscosities can be attained by varying the amount of THI-VEX™ . See the THI-VEX™ technical bulletin (available from Smooth-On or your Smooth-On distributor) for full details. 

 Thinning Dragon Skin™ Silicones - Smooth-On’s Silicone Thinner™ will lower the viscosity of Dragon Skin™ for easier pouring and vacuum degassing. A disadvantage is that ultimate tear and tensile are reduced in proportion to the amount of Silicone Thinner™ added. It is not recommended to exceed 10% by weight of total system (A+B) . See the Silicone Thinner™ technical bulletin (available from Smooth-On or your Smooth-On distributor) for full details. 

 Mold Performance & Storage - The physical life of the mold depends on how you use it (materials cast, frequency, etc.). Casting abrasive materials such as concrete can quickly erode mold detail, while casting non-abrasive materials (wax) will not affect mold detail. Before storing, the mold should be cleaned with a soap solution and wiped fully dry. Two part (or more) molds should be assembled. Molds should be stored on a level surface in a cool, dry environment. 
 
 
 Related Categories: 
 Silicone Rubber - Platinum Cure , Flame Rated Materials , Skin Safe FX Materials 

 
 Related Series: 
 Dragon Skin™ Series – High Performance Silicone Rubber , Flame Rated Materials – Protecting Public Spaces 

 



 
 How-To Articles 
 
 
 video 
 
 How To Reproduce a Sea Sponge using Liquid Plastic 
 
 You can create perfect copies of any original sea sponge model using mold rubber and liquid plastic. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 
 
 How To Make a Prop Rattlesnake Using Dragon Skin™ Silicone 
 
 On a recent job, Blair Benjamin needed to reproduce a rattlesnake for an independent film project. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 
 
 How To Make a Silicone Glove Mold and Faux Wood Casting 
 
 Dragon Skin® is excellent for brush on molds. A Dragon Skin® mold can be turned completely inside out without risk of tearing. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 
 
 How To Make a Brush-On Mold Using Dragon Skin™ Silicone Rubber 
 
 The extreme flexibility of Dragon Skin makes it ideal for creating one piece glove molds. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 



 
 Related Products 
 
 
 
 
 THI-VEX™ 
 
 For Thickening Smooth-On Silicones 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Slacker™ 
 
 Tactile Mutator 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Silicone Thinner™ 
 
 Silicone Rubber Thinning Fluid 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Inhibit X™ 
 
 Stops Cure Inhibition When Using Platinum Silicone Rubber 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Plat-Cat™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Accelerator 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Silc Pig™ 
 
 Pigments for Coloring Silicone 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Ease Release™ 200 
 
 General Purpose Spray Release Agent 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 SLO-JO™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Cure Retarder 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy Now From 
 
 USA Distributor  › 
 Global Distributor  › 
 Find a Distributor  › 
 Smooth-On Store  › 
 



 
 Available Sizes 
 
 Trial Size Unit (2 lbs. / 0.91 kg.) 
 1 Gallon Unit (16 lbs. / 7.26 kg.) 
 5 Gallon Unit (80 lbs. / 36.29 kg.) 
 55 Gallon Unit (880 lbs. / 399.17 kg.) 
 
 (Not all sizes may be available online) 
 How much material will you need? 
 Use our Material Calculators  › 
 





 
 Documentation 
 Technical Bulletin | SDS | Certifications 
 Documents Library  › 
 
 
 
 Related Documents 
 
 Technical Bulletin  › Safety Data Sheet  › Ficha Técnica en Español  › UL94 Flame Certification  › Skin Safety Certification  › In Vitro Toxicity Report  › 
 
-->






 
 Technical Data 
 
 Data At-A-Glance 
 
 
 
 Mix Ratio By Volume 
 
 1A:1B 
 
 
 
 Mix Ratio By Weight 
 
 1A:1B 
 
 
 
 Pot Life 
 
 20 minutes 
 
 
 
 Cure Time 
 
 5 hours 
 
 
 
 Shore Hardness 
 
 10 A 
 
 
 
 Specific Gravity 
 
 1.07 g/cc 
 
 
 
 Specific Volume 
 
 25.8 cu. in./lb. 
 
 
 
 Tensile Strength 
 
 475 psi 
 
 
 
 100% Modulus 
 
 22 psi 
 
 
 
 Elongation @ Break 
 
 1,000 % 
 
 
 
 Die B Tear Strength 
 
 102 pli 
 
 
 
 Color 
 
 Translucent 
 
 
 
 Useful Temperature (min) 
 
 -65 °F 
 
 
 
 Useful Temperature (max) 
 
 450 °F 
 
 
 
 Shrinkage 
 
 
 
 
 
 Dielectric Strength 
 
 >350 volts/mil 
 
 
 
 Catalyst 
 
 Platinum 
 
 
 
 Mixed Viscosity 
 
 
 23,000 cps 
 
 How does this material compare to others? 
 Use Our Compare Tool  › 
 


 
 For Industrial Use Only.
 Keep Out of the Reach of Children.
 


 
 

 
 
 
 About Smooth-On, Inc. 
 You may never have heard of us, but you've seen our products at work. If you've ever been to the movies, admired a piece of sculpture, marveled at detailed architectural ornamentation or used a telephone; then you've encountered the handiwork of people who use Smooth-On rubbers, plastics, foams and other products to turn their ideas into 3-dimensional reality. Learn more about us › 
 
 Facebook 
 Twiter 
 Instagram 
 YouTube 
 Pinterest 
 TikTok 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 Contact Information 
 5600 Lower Macungie Road Macungie, PA 18062 
 Seminar Entrance 
 1725 Willow Lane East Texas, PA 18046 
 Main Phone and Order Desk (610) 252-5800 
 or toll-free: (800) 762-0744 
 Fax (610) 252-6200 
 Contact Our Material Support Team 
 
 
 
 
 Find a Distributor 
 Buy Online – Smooth-On Store Terms & Conditions of Sale / Returns Policy 
 Product Quality and Performance 
 Materials Shelf Life Warranty 
 Technical Assistance Policy 
 Privacy Policy 
 Cookie Policy 
 ESG - Environmental, Social, & Governance 
 Holiday Hours 
 Contact Us 
 Employment 
 Promotional Media 
 Useful Reference Guides 
 
 
 
 
 Facebook 
 Twiter 
 Instagram 
 YouTube 
 Pinterest 
 TikTok 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
©2026 Smooth-On, Inc. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to our terms of use.
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 500 Internal Server Error 
 
 
 Internal Server Error 
 The server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request. 
 Error has been logged. 
 
 

