                                                                                                                     Technical Data Sheet


                                        BERGQUIST HI FLOW THF 5000UT
                                                                                                                                April 2024



PRODUCT DESCRIPTION

BERGQUIST HI FLOW THF 5000UT is tacky, high performance, un-
reinforced phase change TIM that provides the following product
characteristics:

Technology                          Phase change material
Appearance                          Gray
                                         Low thermal impedance
                                         and/or thermal resistance
                                         Excellent thermal
                                         performance for low
Product benefits
                                         pressure application
                                         Excellent reliability
                                         Easy for handling and re-
                                         work
Phase change temperature, ˚C        45
Operating temperature, °C           -40 to 150
                                    Switches, Routers, Servers,
Application
                                    Computers, Automotives             GENERAL INFORMATION
Flammability rating                 UL94-V0                            Please consult the Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for safe handling
                                                                       information of this product.
BERGQUIST HI FLOW THF 5000UT is a reworkable phase change
thermal interface material suitable for use between a heat sink and    Not for product specifications
variety heat generating components. The material flows at the phase    The technical data contained herein are intended as reference only.
change temperature, conforming to the surface features of the          Please contact your local quality department for assistance and
components. Upon flow, air is expelled from the interface, reducing    recommendations on the specifications of this product.
thermal impedance, performing as a highly efficient thermal transfer
material.                                                              Storage:
                                                                       Store product in an unopened container in a dry location. Storage
                                                                       information may be indicated on the product container labeling.

TYPICAL MATERIAL PROPERTIES                                            Optimal Storage: 22°C. Storage greater than 35°C can adversely
                                                                       affect product properties.
Physical Properties
                                                                       Material removed from containers may be contaminated during use.
Thermal impedance ASTM D5470, ºC*in2/W                                 Do not return product to the original container. Henkel cannot
                                                                       assume responsibility for product which has beencontaminated or
  @ 10 psi, 70°C                                        0.016          stored under conditions other than thosepreviously indicated. If
Thermal conductivity, W/m*K                                            additional information is required,please contact your local Henkel
  Multiple thickness, ASTM D5470                        5.3            representative.
 Modified ASTM D5470 for thin bondline materials        8.5            Conversions
Melting point, °C                                                      (°C x 1.8) + 32 = °F
 Oscillatory parallel plate rheometer                   45             kV/mm x 25.4 = V/mil
                                                                       mm / 25.4 = inches
Thickness range, mil                                    8, 10 & 12     µm / 25.4 = mil
                                                                       N x 0.225 = lb
                                                                       N/mm x 5.71 = lb/in
                                                                       N/mm² x 145 = psi
                                                                       MPa x 145 = psi
                                                                       N·m x 8.851 = lb·in
                                                                       N·m x 0.738 = lb·ft
                                                                       N·mm x 0.142 = oz·in
                                                                       mPa·s = cP
                                                                                           TDS BERGQUIST HI FLOW THF 5000UT, April 2024


Disclaimer                                                                  Trademark usage
The information provided in this Technical data sheet (TDS) including       Trademark usage Except as otherwise noted, all trademarks in this
the recommendations for use and application of the product are              document are trademarks of Henkel Corporation in the U.S. and
based on our knowledge and experience of the product as at the              elsewhere. ® denotes a trademark registered in the U.S. Patent and
date of this TDS. The product can have a variety of different               Trademark Office.
applications as well as differing application and working conditions in
your environment that are beyond our control. Henkel is, therefore,         Reference 4
not liable for the suitability of our product for the production
processes and conditions in respect of which you use them, as well
as the intended applications and results. We strongly recommend
that you carry out your own prior trials to confirm such suitability of
our product. Any liability in respect of the information in the Technical
data sheet or any other written or oral recommendation(s) regarding
the concerned product is excluded, except if otherwise explicitly
agreed and except in relation to death or personal injury caused by
our negligence and any liability under any applicable mandatory
product liability law.

In case products are delivered by Henkel Belgium NV, Henkel
Electronic Materials NV, Henkel Nederland BV, Henkel
Technologies France SAS and Henkel France SA please
additionally note the following:
In case Henkel would be nevertheless held liable, on whatever legal
ground, Henkel’s liability will in no event exceed the amount of the
concerned delivery.

In case products are delivered by Henkel Colombiana, S.A.S.
the following disclaimer is applicable:
The information provided in this Technical Data Sheet (TDS)
including the recommendations for use and application of the
product are based on our knowledge and experience of the product
as at the date of this TDS. Henkel is, therefore, not liable for the
suitability of our product for the production processes and conditions
in respect of which you use them, as well as the intended
applications and results. We strongly recommend that you carry out
your own prior trials to confirm such suitability of our product.Any
liability in respect of the information in the Technical Data Sheet or
any other written or oral recommendation(s) regarding the concerned
product is excluded, except if otherwise explicitly agreed and except
in relation to death or personal injury caused by our negligence and
any liability under any applicable mandatory product liability law.

In case products are delivered by Henkel Corporation, or Henkel
Canada Corporation, the following disclaimer is applicable:
The data contained herein are furnished for information only and are
believed to be reliable. We cannot assume responsibility for the
results obtained by others over whose methods we have no control.
It is the user's responsibility to determine suitability for the user's
purpose of any production methods mentioned herein and to adopt
such precautions as may be advisable for the protection of property


                                                                                                                                                 This document was created and digitally signed by tdx.henkel.com at 2025-11-27T12:24:36.440Z
and of persons against any hazards that may be involved in the
handling and use there of. In light of the fore going, Henkel
Corporation specifically disclaims all warranties expressed or
implied, including warranties of merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose, arising from sale or use of Henkel
Corporation’s products. Henkel Corporation specifically
disclaims any liability for consequentialor incidental damages
of any kind, including lost profits. The discussion herein of
various processes or compositions is not to be interpreted as
representation that they are free from domination of patents owned
by others or as a license under any Henkel Corporation patents that
may cover such processes or compositions. We recommend that
each prospective user test his proposed application before repetitive
use, using this data as a guide. This product may be covered by one
or more United States or foreign patents or patent applications.




               For the most direct access to local sales and technical support visit: https://www.henkel-adhesives.com
