   Body Double™ SILK
    Self-Releasing Lifecasting Silicone Rubber
                                                                                                                       www.smooth-on.com
                                                                                            Ce r t if ie d a fe !
                                                                                                  Sk in S
PRODUCT OVERVIEW
Body Double™ SILK is a self-releasing platinum-cure silicone rubber that can be applied directly to the skin to make molds of the
face, hands and other body parts. The rubber cures quickly and will reproduce excellent detail from any original model. Certified Skin
Safe - Material is skin safe and certified by an independent laboratory.
Body Double™ SILK will release from closely cropped hair-covered skin surfaces (short beards, moustaches, eye-brows, pubic hair, etc.).
Release cream or Hyperfolic™ are not needed when using Body Double™ SILK. Body Double™ SILK will last for many castings of almost
any material including plaster, Matrix™ Neo™, wax, resins (Smooth-Cast urethanes, polyester, etc.). Body Double™ SILK has a working
time of 6 minutes and a demold time of 20 minutes*.
*Depending on material temperature, ambient temperature and body temperature – see “Preparation” below for details.

                                                              PROCESSING RECOMMENDATIONS
           TECHNICAL OVERVIEW
                                                              PREPARATION...
  Mix Ratio by Volume or Weight: 1A:1B                        Store and use Body Double™ SILK at room temperature (73°F/23°C). Warmer
                                                              temperatures will drastically reduce working time and cure time. Storing
  Mixed Viscosity: Brushable            (ASTM D-2393)         material at warmer temperatures will also reduce the usable shelf life of unused
                                                              material. This product has a limited shelf life and should be used as soon as
  Specific Gravity (g/cc): 0.91         (ASTM D-1475)         possible. Wear safety glasses, long sleeves and rubber gloves to minimize
                                                              contamination risk. Mixing sticks should be flat and stiff with defined edges
                                                              for scraping the sides and bottom of your mixing container.
  Specific Volume cu. in./lb.): 30.4    (ASTM D-1475)
                                                              Safety - We recommend that you do a small scale test on the back of your
  Pot Life: 6 Minutes                   (ASTM D-2471)         hand to ensure that you have no allergic reaction to the mold rubber. If you
                                                              notice any type of skin reaction, do not use this product. Body Double™ SILK is
                                                              safe for skin application only – it should not be ingested. Do not use to make
  Cure Time: 20 Minutes                                       molds of the inside of the mouth. You can make molds of a smile - parted lips
                                                              with teeth exposed, but closed together.
  Color: Green
                                                              Life casting is best done with at least three people. You will be working with
                                                              materials that set up quickly. One person is the designated model and the
  *Shore A Hardness: 25A                (ASTM D-2240)         others will mix and apply mold rubber and support shell.
                                                              Avoid Open Eye Contact - In making a mold of the face, applying this
  *Shrinkage (in./in.): <0.001          (ASTM D-2566)
                                                              silicone to closed eyes (after applying Body Double™ release cream to avoid
                 *Values measured after 7 days at 73°F/23°C   encapsulating eye lashes) is common practice. At no time should this or any
                                                              other Smooth-On material come in contact with open eyes.
Cure Inhibition - Contaminants on the skin may cause inhibition. Prior to applying Body Double™ SILK, skin should be clean, dry and
free of make-up, cosmetics, skin creams, oils perfumes, etc. Do not apply rubber over skin coated with an aloe-based product, as this will
cause cure inhibition. Do not use latex gloves. When using a bald cap, make sure it is latex free.
Because no two applications are quite the same, a small test application to determine suitability for your project is recommended
if performance of this material is in question.

RELEASING BODY DOUBLE™ SILK...
Body Double™ SILK is designed to not encapsulate body or facial hair such as closely cropped beards, moustaches, eye-brows, pubic
hair, etc. A release cream or additive is not required in most cases. If performing a full-head lifecasting, use of a non-latex bald cap is
recommended. A small test application to determine suitability of release properties is recommended.

MEASURING, MIXING & APPLYING...
Stir Part A and Part B thoroughly before dispensing. After pre-mixing Parts A and B, dispense equal amounts into a mixing container
(1A:1B). Use a flat, stiff mixing stick with defined edges and stir aggressively. Scrape the sides and bottom of your container several times.
For Best Results - After mixing thoroughly for 60 seconds, empty the contents of your mixing container into a second clean mixing
container and mix again for another 60 seconds before applying to your model.
                                         Apply to skin with a wooden tongue depressor, brush or by gloved hand. For best results,
          Safety First!                  apply in the direction of hair growth.
                                         Add Material As Necessary - Body Double™ SILK sticks to itself, so adding more rubber
                                         is not a problem. Add new material as soon as possible. Be careful when adding new material
                                         to cured material - carefully “marry” sections to minimize seam lines. Final mold thickness
The Material Safety Data Sheet
                                         should be ¼” - 3/8” (1 cm). For adequate handling strength and tear resistance, mold thickness
(MSDS) for this or any Smooth-On
                                         around outer edges should be no less than 3/8” (1 cm). Let material cure fully before applying
product should be read prior to          support shell.
use and is available upon request
from Smooth-On. All Smooth-On
products are safe to use if directions
                                         APPLYING A SUPPORT SHELL, DEMOLDING & CASTING...
are read and followed carefully.         Gypsona™ Plaster Bandages (available from Smooth-On) remain the industry standard
                                         for making a fast, strong support shell. After Body Double™ SILK rubber has cured, brush a
BE CAREFUL - Use only with               thin layer of petroleum jelly onto rubber mold surface to minimize chances of suction or
adequate ventilation. Contact with       mechanical locking of rigid support shell. Wet and apply bandages over rubber mold surface,
skin and eyes may cause irritation.      following contours. Bandages cure in 15 minutes and can be removed from rubber surface.
Flush eyes with soap and water for
15 minutes and seek immediate
                                         Demold Rubber From Body - Slowly peel rubber away from skin surface. Pay close
                                         attention to your model, and instruct them to give you constant feedback during the material
medical attention. Remove from
                                         removal process should they be in discomfort.
skin with waterless hand cleaner
followed by soap and water.              Casting - Before casting, trim thin feathered edges from around the perimeter of the
                                         rubber mold using scissors. Seat rubber mold into support shell before casting. A release
IMPORTANT - The information              agent is not necessary when casting most materials. If casting resins, let rubber cure at least
contained in this bulletin is            60 minutes before casting. Store cured Body Double™ SILK rubber mold in support shell for
considered accurate. However, no         best results.
warranty is expressed or implied
regarding the accuracy of the data,      RELEASING PLATINUM SILICONES FROM BODY
the results to be obtained from the
use thereof, or that any such use
                                         DOUBLE™ SILK...
will not infringe upon a patent.         Ease Release™ 200 is not very effective in releasing Dragon Skin™, Ecoflex™ and other platinum
User shall determine the suitability     silicones from cured SILK molds. The best release agent is petroleum jelly (Vaseline™) thinned
of the product for the intended          with mineral spirits. Mix petroleum jelly with 80% mineral spirits by volume and brush into
application and assume all risk and      all mold surfaces. Let dry for 30 minutes. Apply platinum silicone as directed.
liability whatsoever in connection
therewith.




                                 Call Us Anytime With Questions About Your Application.
                                       Toll-free: (800) 381-1733 Fax: (610) 252-6200
            www.smooth-on.com is loaded with information about mold making, casting and more.
                                                                                                                          030524DH
