

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


 


 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 ×
 

 Notice regarding fraudulent LinkedIn recruiting messages 
 
 It has come to our attention that malicious actors are reaching out to individuals on LinkedIn claiming to be from our HR department and are recruiting for various positions.
 
 We occasionally use LinkedIn for recruiting. When doing so, we will ask if you are interested in the opportunity and arrange for a phone interview and/or initiate communication via email. The email address will be our first initial and last name @shinetsua.com. Most of the time the position will also be posted on our careers page .
 If you are in doubt, please call 800-544-1745 or 330-630-9460 and ask to speak with someone in HR.
 
 If in doubt, please do not reply back to the email or online request. Please report any such communication to us so that we may further investigate.
 
-->

 
 Doing Our Part for the Environment - Learn more here 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Find a Product 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 Request a Sample 
 
 
 800-544-1745 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Home 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 Industries 
 
 
 Literature 
 
 
 Samples 
 
 
 Sustainability 
 
 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Find out about: 
 
 Silanes 
 
 
 Oligomers 
 
 
 Events 
 
 
 Videos 
 
 
 
 
 Find a Product: 
 
 Elastomer 
 
 
 Fluid 
 
 
 RTV 
 
 
 TIM 
 
 
 
 About Shin-Etsu: 
 
 About Us 
 
 
 Shin-Etsu News 
 
 
 Event Calendar 
 
 
 Shin-Etsu Videos 
 
 
 
 Products & Services: 
 
 Dimethyl Fluids 
 
 
 Fluorosilicone 
 
 
 HCR 
 
 
 HCR Custom Compounding 
 
 
 LIMS 
 
 
 Modified Silicone Fluids 
 
 
 Mold Making 
 
 
 Silicone Oligomers 
 
 
 Silicone Resins 
 
 
 Paint Additives 
 
 
 
 One Component RTV 
 
 
 Pressure Sensitive Adhesives 
 
 
 Release Coatings 
 
 
 Silanes 
 
 
 Thermal Interface Materials 
 
 
 Two Component RTV 
 
 
 
 Statements & History: 
 
 Environmental Statement 
 
 
 Sustainability 
 
 
 Safety Policy Statement 
 
 
 Shin-Etsu History 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Print 
 Download PDF 
 
 KE-45 
 
 
 Product Description 
 Shin-Etsu's KE-45 is a single component, room-temperature cure, thixotropic adhesive that will cure into a tough, durable elastomer. KE-45 is a low odor, neutral cure, non-corrosive product that exhibits excellent, unprimed adhesion to metals, plastics, glass, and ceramics. 
 Product Features 
 
 
 Single Component
 
 Room-temperature cure
 
 Thixotropic paste
 
 Low odor and non-corrosive 
 
 
 Typical Applications 
 
 
 Form-in-place gasketing
 
 Sealing electronics 
 
 
 Literature 
 Contact A Distributor 

 
 
 Typical Properties 
 Type Adhesive/Sealant Cure Type Condensation One/Two Component One Color Black, White, Gray, Red, Translucent Density @ 23C (g/cm 3 ) 1.05 Cure Conditions 7days @ 23C/50% RH Tack Free Time (min) 6 Shore A Hardness 30 Tensile Strength (MPa) 1.90 Tear Strength (kN/m) 7.00000 % Elongation 310 Shear Strength (MPa) 1.00 Volume Resistivity (TΩ·m) 10 Dielectric Strength (kV/mm) 20 Dielectric Constant 2.6 @ 50Hz Dielectric Dissipation Factor 5 x 10 -3 @ 50Hz Thermal Conductivity (W/m·K) 0.21 Usable Temperature Range (C) -40 to +180 
 
 Note: Values are not for specification purposes. 

 
 

 Warranty- The information and data contained herein are believed to be accurate and reliable; however it is the user's responsibility to determine suitability of use.
 Since Shin-Etsu Silicones, Inc. cannot know all of the uses to which its products may be put or the conditions of use, it makes no warranties concerning the fitness or suitability of its products for a particular use or purpose. You should thoroughly test any proposed use of our products and independently conclude satisfactory performance in your application. Likewise, if the manner in which our products are used requires governmental approval or clearance, you must obtain it. Shin-Etsu Silicones, Inc. warrants only that its products will meet its specifications. There is no warranty of merchantability of fitness of use, nor any other expressed or implied warranties. The user's exclusive remedy and Shin-Etsu Silicones, Inc.'s sole liability is limited to refund of the price or replacement of any product shown to be otherwise than as warranted. Shin-Etsu Silicones, Inc. will not be liable for incidental or consequential damages of any kind. Suggestions of uses should not be taken as inducements to infringe any patents. 

 
 
 
 Click Here to Request a Sample 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 KE-45

 

 
 
 
 Full Name: * 

 Name please. 
 

 
 

 
 Company Name: * 
 
 

 
 
 Email: * 

 Email Please 

 Invalid email address 
 

 
 

 
 
 Phone Number: * 

 Phone Please 
 

 
 

 
 Shipping Info: 

 
 Shipping Address: 
 
 
 

 
 Shipper: (If you require faster than ground delivery, please provide your shipping provider's name.) 
 
 

 
 Shipping Account: (If ground transport is not sufficient, please provide your shipping account number.) 
 
 
 

 
 Comments: 
 
 
 

 
 Other Message: 
 
 
 

 
 
 Submit Request 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 About Us 
 
 
 Careers 
 
 
 Industries 
 
 
 Literature 
 
 
 Request Samples 
 
 
 News 
 
 
 Contact Us 
 
 
 Videos 
 
 
 
 Copyright © 2026 Shin-Etsu Silicones of America, Inc. All Rights Reserved
 
 
 
 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 

