 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 


 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 Dragon Skin™ FX-Pro™ Product Information | Smooth-On, Inc. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 


 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 -->
 
 -->

 -->
 
 
 -->

 -->
 
 
 -->

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main Menu 
 Home  › 
 Applications  › 
 Products  › 
 How-To  › 
 Support  › 
 Material Calculators  › 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ‹ Back to Main Menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Contents 
 Overview 
 Features Gallery Instructions How-To Articles Related Products 
 
 Purchase 
 USA Distributor  › 
 Global Distributor  › 
 Smooth-On Store  › 
 -->
 
 


 
 Dragon Skin™ FX-Pro™ 
 
 
 
 *NOTE: Product Packaging May Vary 
 › Technical Bulletin and SDS 
 
 Dragon Skin™ FX-Pro™ is a soft, stable, high performance platinum silicone rubber specifically designed for creating silicone makeup appliances and skin effects. Dragon Skin™ FX-Pro™ is compatible with Skin-Tite™ silicone adhesive as well as medical grade pressure sensitive adhesives for adhering silicone appliances temporarily to the skin. Soft and stretchy FX-Pro™ has a Shore hardness of 2A. FX-Pro™ can be combined with SLACKER™ deadening agent to create a very soft silicone gel for filling encapsulated silicone pieces. An infinite number of color effects can be achieved by adding Silc-Pig™ silicone pigments. Cured rubber can also be painted with the Psycho Paint™ system. 



 
 Features 
 
 Soft - Shore 2A hardness allows for softer appliances using less SLACKER™ deadening agent 
 Low Viscosity - combined with long working time reduces bubbles and makes pouring easier 
 Cures Dry - will not leach silicone fluid 
 Long Working Time - 10-12 minute working time is good for larger pours or injections 
 Fast Cure - 40 minute cure time allows for quick turnaround of castings or molds 
 More Workable - Do More - has a ‘gel’ stage - slushing the material into prosthetic molds is easier 
 

 › Click here for more Dragon Skin™ silicone products. 



 
 Gallery 
 
 
 Photo credit: Frank Ippolito Photo credit: Lawrence Kelatow, http://kelatow.com/ Photo credit: George Troester, https://www.facebook.com/georgetroester 
 
 

 
 Instructions 
 Measuring & Mixing 

 Before you begin, pre-mix Part B thoroughly. After dispensing required amounts of Parts A and B into mixing container (1A:1B by volume or weight), mix thoroughly making sure that you scrape the sides and bottom of the mixing container several times. 

 Pouring 

 For best results, pour your mixture in a single spot at the lowest point of the containment field. Let the rubber seek its own level. A uniform flow will help minimize entrapped air. If using as a mold material, the liquid rubber should level off at least 1/2” (1.3 cm) over the highest point of the model surface. 

 Curing 

 Allow rubber to cure for 40 minutes at room temperature (73°F / 23°C) before demolding. Time to demold can be reduced with mild heat or by adding an appropriate amount of Plat-Cat™ cure accelerator (See Plat-Cat™ technical bulletin available at www.smooth-on.com for details). The pot life and cure times can be extended using Slo-Jo™ cure retarder (see Slo-Jo™ technical bulletin available at www.smooth-on.com for details). Do not cure rubber where temperature is less than 65°F / 18°C. 
 
 
 Related Categories: 
 Silicone Rubber - Platinum Cure , Skin Safe FX Materials 

 
 Related Series: 
 Dragon Skin™ Series – High Performance Silicone Rubber 

 



 
 How-To Articles 
 
 
 video 
 
 How To Create a Realistic Silicone Wound using Smooth-Cast™ 300 and Dragon Skin™ FX Pro 
 
 Learn how to make a plate mold for a wound, and how to cast and apply a Dragon Skin™ FX-Pro™ prosthetic. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 video 
 
 How To Create a Zombie Makeup Using Simple Silicone Prosthetics 
 
 How to create easy to make silicone appliances for use in a zombie makeup like you would see on The Walking Dead. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 video 
 
 How To Make a Silicone Pregnancy Overlay - Part 2 
 
 Silicone rubber and foam are applied to the mold surface to create a realistic pregnancy overlay. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 video 
 
 How To Create a Zombie Makeup Using Silicone Rubber 
 
 Smooth-On fan Leo V. shows how to make and apply a zombie makeup using the Ultimate Zombie Kit. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 
 
 High Tech Materials Create a Horrific Zombie 
 
 Zombies are more popular than ever in TV shows, movies, Zombie-walks, Zombie Parties and more. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 video 
 
 How To Make a Quick Silicone Wound Prosthetic 
 
 Making and applying professional quality wound prosthetics. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 video 
 
 How to Make a Silicone Gel-Filled Zombie Prosthetic 
 
 How to create a silicone gel filled appliance, paint the piece, and adhere it to the actor. 
 ›  View How-To Article 
 
 
 



 
 Related Products 
 
 
 
 
 Slacker™ 
 
 Tactile Mutator 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Silc Pig™ 
 
 Pigments for Coloring Silicone 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Psycho Paint™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Paint Base 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 NOVOCS™ Matte 
 
 Silicone Solvent 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Inhibit X™ 
 
 Stops Cure Inhibition When Using Platinum Silicone Rubber 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Plat-Cat™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Accelerator 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Silicone Thinner™ 
 
 Silicone Rubber Thinning Fluid 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 SLO-JO™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Cure Retarder 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy Now From 
 
 USA Distributor  › 
 Global Distributor  › 
 Find a Distributor  › 
 Smooth-On Store  › 
 



 
 Available Sizes 
 
 Trial Size Unit (2 lbs. / 0.91 kg.) 
 1 Gallon Unit (16 lbs. / 7.26 kg.) 
 5 Gallon Unit (80 lbs. / 36.29 kg.) 
 55 Gallon Unit (880 lbs. / 399.17 kg.) 
 
 (Not all sizes may be available online) 
 How much material will you need? 
 Use our Material Calculators  › 
 





 
 Documentation 
 Technical Bulletin | SDS | Certifications 
 Documents Library  › 
 
 
 
 Related Documents 
 
 Technical Bulletin  › Safety Data Sheet  › Skin Safety Certification  › 
 
-->






 
 Technical Data 
 
 Data At-A-Glance 
 
 
 
 Mix Ratio By Volume 
 
 1A:1B 
 
 
 
 Mix Ratio By Weight 
 
 1A:1B 
 
 
 
 Pot Life 
 
 12 minutes 
 
 
 
 Cure Time 
 
 40 minutes 
 
 
 
 Shore Hardness 
 
 2 A 
 
 
 
 Specific Gravity 
 
 1.062 g/cc 
 
 
 
 Specific Volume 
 
 25.0 cu. in./lb. 
 
 
 
 Color 
 
 Translucent 
 
 
 
 Tensile Strength 
 
 288 psi 
 
 
 
 100% Modulus 
 
 37.8 psi 
 
 
 
 Elongation @ Break 
 
 763 % 
 
 
 
 Die B Tear Strength 
 
 61 pli 
 
 
 
 Shrinkage 
 
 
 
 
 
 Catalyst 
 
 Platinum 
 
 
 
 Mixed Viscosity 
 
 
 18,000 cps 
 
 How does this material compare to others? 
 Use Our Compare Tool  › 
 


 
 For Industrial Use Only.
 Keep Out of the Reach of Children.
 


 
 

 
 
 
 About Smooth-On, Inc. 
 You may never have heard of us, but you've seen our products at work. If you've ever been to the movies, admired a piece of sculpture, marveled at detailed architectural ornamentation or used a telephone; then you've encountered the handiwork of people who use Smooth-On rubbers, plastics, foams and other products to turn their ideas into 3-dimensional reality. Learn more about us › 
 
 Facebook 
 Twiter 
 Instagram 
 YouTube 
 Pinterest 
 TikTok 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 Contact Information 
 5600 Lower Macungie Road Macungie, PA 18062 
 Seminar Entrance 
 1725 Willow Lane East Texas, PA 18046 
 Main Phone and Order Desk (610) 252-5800 
 or toll-free: (800) 762-0744 
 Fax (610) 252-6200 
 Contact Our Material Support Team 
 
 
 
 
 Find a Distributor 
 Buy Online – Smooth-On Store Terms & Conditions of Sale / Returns Policy 
 Product Quality and Performance 
 Materials Shelf Life Warranty 
 Technical Assistance Policy 
 Privacy Policy 
 Cookie Policy 
 ESG - Environmental, Social, & Governance 
 Holiday Hours 
 Contact Us 
 Employment 
 Promotional Media 
 Useful Reference Guides 
 
 
 
 
 Facebook 
 Twiter 
 Instagram 
 YouTube 
 Pinterest 
 TikTok 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
©2026 Smooth-On, Inc. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to our terms of use.
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 500 Internal Server Error 
 
 
 Internal Server Error 
 The server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request. 
 Error has been logged. 
 
 

