SILICONE OPTICALLY CLEAR ADHESIVE FOR ELECTRONIC
APPLICATIONS
Kwanho Chang, Staff Scientist, Momentive Performance Materials, Waterford NY
David Newsham, Staff Scientist, Momentive Performance Materials, Waterford NY

Abstract

Bonding optical components is vital to the consumer electronics, automotive, and
photovoltaic industries. Bonding is especially critical in touch-screen devices. Screen
durability and viewability can be significantly affected by how the layers that make up a
typical screen such as the cover window, touch sensor and display module are bonded
together.

Bonding can be achieved through several different processes. One of the most effective
methods of optical bonding is laminating the functional layers with a cured, optically clear
adhesive (OCA) film. OCAs are pressure sensitive adhesives formulated into a transferrable
film sandwiched between release liners. The use of a transfer adhesive film allows for good
control of film thickness and more rapid assembly than is generally possible with
conventional optically clear resins (OCR), which are typically applied as a liquid and require
custom processes and potentially longer post cure periods.

Silicone OCAs offer the advantages of silicone adhesives. Silicone’s exceptional UV
resistance and chemical/mechanical stability over a broad temperature range enable silicone
OCAs to perform in many environments, including the harsh conditions that are often
associated with aerospace and automotive applications. In addition, the tunable modulus and
Tg allow silicone OCAs to be optimized for performance in a wide variety of applications.

This paper will discuss the development of silicone OCAs for use in electronics applications.
Introduction

Bonding optical components is of importance in the consumer electronics, automotive, and
photovoltaic industries.1 Bonding is especially critical in touch-screen devices, which have
shown substantial growth during the past decade. The durability and performance of a screen
can be significantly affected by how the internal layers, such as the cover window, touch
sensor and display module, bond together within the device.

Bonding can be achieved by laminating the functional layers with a pre-cured, optically clear
adhesive (OCA) film. OCAs are optically transparent, pressure sensitive adhesives (PSA) that
are typically made of either acrylic or silicone materials and formulated into a transferrable
adhesive film sandwiched between release liners. The use of a transfer adhesive film allows
for good control of film thickness even in the case of curved-to-curved surface bonding and
enables more rapid assembly than is generally possible with conventional optically clear
resins (OCR), which are typically applied as a liquid and require a longer post cure period. In
addition to bonding the display layers, the use of OCA offers the major benefit of enhancing
viewability of the displays by filling air gaps present under the cover window. The OCA
minimizes light reflection/ refraction caused by the refractive index mismatch between
adjacent layers, which leads to extension of a battery life.

Although commercially available OCA tapes are primarily based on acrylic materials,
silicone OCA has drawn growing attention for emerging applications due to its distinct
properties over acrylic OCA.2 Silicone OCAs present not only the advantages typical of
silicone adhesives, but also advanced features relevant to electronic applications. Silicone’s
exceptional UV resistance and chemical/mechanical stability over a broad range of
temperature as well as low modulus and exceptional elasticity at subzero temperature make it
a versatile solution that can meet the challenging requests presented by a variety of
applications, including those of extremely demanding aerospace and automotive applications.

The physical properties of silicone OCA are readily tunable to fit the application
requirements by blending varying amounts of two major components: high molecular weight
silicone gum and highly branched silicone resin.3 Silicone gum takes the form of a linear
polymer composed of divalent D units [R2SiO2/2] and is represented as soft segments to
ensure consistent operation at extremely low temperature due to the glass transition
temperature (Tg) of ca. -120 °C. Silicone resins are condensed silicates with relatively low
molecular weight and normally referred to as MQ resins, as they consist of monovalent M
units [R3SiO1/2] and tetravalent Q units [SiO4/2]. They are represented as hard segments with
very high Tg, over 300 °C, and responsible for peel strength and shear adhesion at high
temperatures. When silicone resins are dissolved with silicone gum in solvent, dried, and
cured into an adhesive film, the resulting article will exhibit two separate glass transition
temperatures as it forms a partially miscible or micro-phase separated mixture caused by
dissimilarity in molecular structure. The Tg of the silicone gum remains at -120 °C while the
Tg of the MQ resin drops substantially according to the resin-to-gum (R/G) ratio. In
comparison, acrylic OCA shows only a single Tg although it is constructed with a similar
concept of hard and soft segments.3 Therefore, silicone OCA can be formulated to exhibit the
elastic modulus orders of magnitude lower than acrylic OCA as shown in Figure 1.

Unlike traditional silicone PSA cured with benzoyl peroxide, silicone OCA is generally
addition-cured: platinum catalyzed hydrosilylation of vinyl silicone with hydride crosslinker.
Silicone gums can be vinyl end-stopped or mid-functional. MQ resins can also be
functionalized to react with hydride cross-linker. Accordingly, addition cure OCA can allow
for more precise control of the polymer network structure and lower cure temperature than
peroxide-cure.




      Figure 1. Elastic modulus of acrylic OCA (Ac-OCA) and silicone OCA (Si-OCA)

When it comes to the electronic applications that require dynamic performance, such as
flexible displays and touch sensors,4 peel adhesion strength of silicone PSA can be balanced
with adhesive elasticity by optimizing the amount of MQ resin in the formulation. The
parameters of rheological properties, e.g., elastic modulus (G′), loss modulus (G″), and tan δ
(= G″/G′), become keys to altering dynamic performance of silicone OCA within an
operating temperature window. This paper will discuss the developmental efforts to place
silicone OCA in various consumer electronics, in particular, those that emphasize the need
for specific dynamic features.

Experimental

Preparation of Silicone OCA Coatings
All compositions were dissolved in toluene and coated onto a 2-mil fluorosilicone release
liner using a Gardner applicator in a motorized coating station. The coated samples were
dried at ambient temperature for 20 min, cured in oven at 135 °C for 5 min, and covered with
the fluorosilicone liner. The thickness of the cured films was targeted to either 25 μm or 100
μm, depending upon the test conditions.

Dynamic Mechanical Analysis (DMA)
The rheological properties of the adhesives were measured using either DMA-Q800 (TA
Instruments) in an extensional mode or ARES-G2 (TA Instruments) in a shear mode. The
specimens were prepared by stacking multiple OCA films using a rubber roller and cutting
them into a 5.3 mm × 30 mm rectangular strip using a hand-cutter supplied by the original
manufacturer. The trimmed samples were annealed for at least 24 hours before DMA testing.
Dynamic strain sweep was performed to determine a critical strain in a linear viscoelastic (LVE)
regime. The temperature ramp experiments were carried out from -100 °C to 150 °C at a rate
of 3 °C/min under an oscillatory deformation with a strain of 0.1 % and a frequency of 1 Hz.
As a result, loss modulus (E″ or G″), storage modulus (E′ or G′), and tanδ, which is defined as
the ratio of loss to storage modulus, are reported.

Cyclic Deformation Test
The OCA tapes were stacked to a 1mm thick film using a rubber roller as described previously
and punched into dog bones using a dumbbell cutter in accordance with JIS K6251-2. After the
specimen was installed in Instron tension meter (model 3366), an upper clamp pulled the
specimen to a pre-determined strain (%) at a crosshead speed of 500 mm/min and returned to
the original position. After 10 cyclic deformations, the strain was step-increased to a higher
strain up to 400%. Tensile strength and energy under the stress-strain curve were calculated
from the measurements.
180° Peel Adhesion and Release Force
Peel tests were performed using TA.XT Plus texture analyzer (Stable Micro Systems™). To
measure peel strength, 25mm wide strips of OCA tape were transferred to PET films and
applied on stainless steel panels under a standard 2 kg loading. After 30 minute dwelling, the
OCA tape was clamped and pulled vertically from the panel at 180° angle at a rate of 300
mm/min until the tape was delaminated from the panel by 60 mm. The force recorded at a
steady state was time-averaged. All reported data are the average of three replicas. For release
force test, a tight liner was directly peeled from the adhesive attached to the stainless steel
panel.
Static Bending Test
25μm polyimide (PI) films and 100 μm OCA tapes were cut into 104 mm × 76 mm rectangles,
assembled together into a PI/OCA/PI tri-layer and mounted on two adjacent 76mm × 52mm
slide glasses as shown in Figure 2. Then one side of the sample was folded inward and clamped
over a 5mm thick spacer to hold the curvature. The completed assembly was aged at 60°C
/90%RH in a humidity chamber and visually inspected after 24 hours.




              Figure 2. Schematics of sample preparation for static bending test.

Outgas test
The tri-layer samples for the outgas test were prepared by laminating the OCA tape between
plastic films. Initial defects or voids present on the laminated samples were marked in black.
The samples were placed at 85°C /85%RH in a humidity chamber for 1 hour and photographed
to count the number of blisters that appeared on the surface.

Results and Discussion

In order to assure the low temperature flexibility, the glass transition temperature of the OCA
needs to locate below the operating temperature window. Figure 3(a) plots tanδ curves of
silicone OCA comprised of silicone gum and MQ resin at various R/G ratios. As the amount
of MQ resin was reduced in the composition, not only did Tg drop in proportion to the R/G
ratio, but also both the peak and plateau values of the tanδ curve decreased accordingly in
magnitude, implying that the OCA becomes more rubbery and elastic. Also, Figure 3(b)
shows that the plateau values of tanδ can be easily shifted while fixing the location of peak
tanδ, or Tg, by using a different type of silicone gum.

 (a)                                          (b)
                                    R/G=0.9
                                    R/G=1.1
                                    R/G=1.3
                                    R/G=1.5




                                                                                     Gum 1
                                                                                     Gum 2
                                                                                     Gum 3




Figure 3. tanδ curve of silicone OCA prepared with (a) a varying R/G ratio and (b) different
silicone gums.

For a given thickness of the OCA, Figure 4 shows that peel strength of silicone OCA and
release force of the tight liner linearly decrease with a decreasing R/G ratio. The change was
more pronounced with thicker OCA samples. The force difference between 1 mil (25 m)
and 3 mil (75 m) OCAs was least at the lowest R/G ratio and greatest at the highest R/G
ratio. It is noteworthy, however, that further decrease in the R/G ratio did not cause a
crossover but a leveling off of both peel strength and release force. As the influence of MQ
resin becomes marginal in the OCA film, the overall properties will be primarily determined
by the silicone gum phase via crosslink density or plateau moduli.




Figure 4. Peel adhesion strength of silicone OCA and release force of a tight liner as a
function of the R/G ratio.
Hysteresis analysis was conducted on both acrylic and silicone OCA films by applying the
cyclic extensional deformation. The area of the hysteresis loop is associated with the amount
of energy dissipated upon reversal of the force, which in turn involves an adiabatic exotherm.
As shown in Figure 5, the largest permanent set, or stress softening, occurred during the first
load/unload process showing the widest hysteresis loop. From the subsequent load/unload
cycle the hysteresis loop decreased in size but remained identical during the remaining
cycles, indicating that pure elastic behavior prevailed the following deformation. Such
irreversible stress softening is referred to as “Mullins effect” and often reported in filled
rubber systems.5 When the sample was extended to a new strain beyond the maximum
stretch previously applied, the stress softening process started over again.
       (a)                                                (b)




Figure 5. Stress-strain curve from cyclic deformation: (a) acrylic OCA and (b) silicone OCA

Figure 6 compares stress softening of the OCAs, which is defined as a ratio of the area
difference in the hysteresis loop between the first and last cycle to the area of the first
hysteresis loop. It accounts for permanent energy loss during cyclic deformation. Stress
softening appeared even more significant in acrylic OCA compared to silicone OCA with the
similar Tg. Stress softening progressively increased with increasing strain for acrylic OCA
while it remained nearly unchanged for silicone OCA.




Figure 6. Stress softening of acrylic OCA and silicone OCA at various extensional strains.
Filled symbols: silicone OCA, hollow symbols: acrylic OCA
Also, nano-indentation testing was utilized to evaluate the elasticity of acrylic and silicone
OCA tapes. A 0.4 mm ball indenter was used to compress the OCA film combined with
plastic substrates under variable loads, which was ramped at a rate of 1mN/3sec, held at the
maximum for 5 sec, and released. The OCA films experienced variable extents of creep at the
maximum load as presented in Figure 7(a). Silicone OCA showed the similar load-to-depth
profile to silicone OCR, but outperformed all acrylic OCAs showing higher displacement
depth, less creep, and higher percentage recovery. Further investigation elucidated that creep
distance is inversely proportional to the elastic modulus in Figure 7(b). Therefore, careful
control of the elastic modulus OCA is necessary to meet the needs in electronic devices.


 (a)                                                         (b)




                                                  Si-OCR
                                                  Si-OCA
                                                  Ac-OCA 1
                                                  Ac-OCA 2
                                                  Ac-OCA 3




Figure 7. (a) Nano-indentation results of silicone OCA (red) in comparison with silicone
OCR (blue) and acrylic OCAs (condition: 0.4mm ball indenter, 1 mN/3 s, creep 5 s) (b) creep
distance as a function of plateau modulus.


In addition to the aforementioned extension and compression behaviors, we also attempted to
probe bendability of silicone OCA using an in-house experimental setup as a substitute
dynamic bending test. The experiments were performed by folding the PI/OCA/PI tri-layer
assembly in a static condition under a fixed curvature at 60 °C/90%RH for 24 hours. Table 1
summarizes the static bending test results of two representative silicone OCA samples. After
24 hour aging, Sample 1 came out free of surface defects, whereas Sample 2 suffered from
delamination on the central zone where the most stress was concentrated. It was obvious that
the failure of Sample 2 was not caused by low peel strength. Instead, it turned out that the
rheological properties, in particular a plateau tanδ value, at high temperature had a great
influence on bending resistance. Figure 8 plots plateau tanδ values of silicone OCA samples
with 100 μm thickness as a function of the R/G ratio. Test results are highly segregated into
two regions over a wide range of the R/G ratio. All OCA samples with plateau tanδ values
greater than 0.5 passed the static bending test. On the other hand, those with plateau values
less than 0.4 failed the test yielding delamination (adhesive failure) at the center. No cohesive
failure of the film was observed. Accordingly, one can explain the previous result given in
Table 1 emphasizing the effect of the viscous component of the OCA tape on dissipating
bending energy in the region under stress so as to present adhesive failure.
       Table 1. Static bending results of silicone OCA sandwiched between PI films

                            Sample 1                   Sample 2
           t=0h




           t = 24 h
           60°C/90%RH




           Bending test Pass                           Adhesive failure
           Peel adhesion 590 gf/in                     740 gf/in
           Plateau tanδ 0.53                          0.32




Figure 8. Static bending test results of silicone OCA (100 μm) as a function of plateau tanδ
Apart from adhesive properties, another important aspect to be taken into account for silicone
transfer adhesive is release force from a fluorosilicone liner. Release force is largely
determined by surface energy difference between materials used in coating on the liner and
adhesive film6, but also closely related to wettability of the adhesive on the liner surface.
Therefore, release force tends to increase with loss modulus or tanδ values.7 Too great a
release force may cause transfer failure of the OCA film on the adherend surface, especially
in the automated process. Figure 9 shows the effect of plateau tanδ values on release force of
a tight liner measured with silicone OCA. As expected, release force decreases rapidly with
decreasing plateau tanδ values and then becomes saturated if the OCA becomes sufficiently
elastic with low tanδ. In order for silicone OCA to be used in applications requiring extreme
bending performance, it is essential to balance release force with bending resistance by
careful control of the rheological properties of the adhesive.




Figure 9. Release force of a tight liner of silicone OCA as a function of plateau tanδ

Outgassing or blistering of OCA films laminated with plastic substrates has been reported in
literature8,9 when it was exposed to high temperature and high humidity conditions. In cases
with acrylic OCA, such defects are primarily caused by moisture present in the adhesive and
substrates, and the proposed solution is addition of an acrylic tackifier to increase peel
strength. Outgassing of silicone OCA is a more complex problem because addition-cured
silicone OCA contains residual hydride that can react with moisture to generate hydrogen gas
as described below.10



Therefore, it is vital to remove residual hydride in the cured silicone OCA. In addition, silicone
is more hydrophobic in nature than acrylic material due to non-polar composition of the
polymer back bone so that the solubility of water in the silicone OCA is considerably lower
than that in acrylic OCA. It was observed that addition of hydrophilic additives in silicon OCA
could mitigate the outgas issue to a certain degree depending upon molecular structure of
additives (0.8 wt %) as illustrated in Figure 10. Also, it was confirmed that outgas resistance
of silicone OCA was dramatically amplified by optimizing the lamination process conditions,
which will require the close collaboration with the end user to develop a tailored process to
apply silicone OCA in the electronics applications.
                (a)                 (b)                 (c)                 (d)




Figure 10. Outgas test results of silicone OCA laminated with PET films in the presence of
(a) no additive (b) additive 1 (c) additive 2 (d) additive 3

Conclusion

Silicone OCA has been evaluated by several test protocols for use in electronic applications
that require dynamic performance. In principle, silicone OCA is intrinsically more flexible than
acrylic OCA due to the presence of two separate glass transition temperatures. It is capable of
providing a variety of flexible features not currently offered by an acrylic OCA. The
rheological properties were found to be key parameters to optimize elasticity, stress softening,
creep, recovery, and bendability of silicone OCA, which should be in balance for easy removal
of a fluorosilicone liner. Also, moisture and residual hydride could result in blistering in
silicone OCA upon exposure to high temperature and high humidity but could be mitigated by
proper modification of formulation and process conditions.


Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank Kenta Suzuki, Tiberiu Siclovan and Roy Griswold for their
insightful advices to design experiments and analyze the data as well as Mark Bisaillon and
SongYi Ham for their help in preparing and testing the OCA samples.


References

1. Lee J.-H. et al. (2017) Int J Adhesion Adhesives pp.137
2. “OCA/OCR for Touch Panel – Market and Technology Analysis”, Displaybank, (2012) Nov
3 . Benedek, I., Feldstein, M. ed. (2009) “Technology of Pressure-Sensitive Adhesives and
Products”, CRC Press
4. Haq, J. et al. (2011) Microelectronic Engineering 88 pp.2852
5. Diani, J., Fayolle, B., Gilormini, P. (2009) European Polym Journ. pp.601
6. Sowa, D.; Czech, Z.; Byczynski, L. (2014) Int. Journal Adh. Adj. 49 pp.38-43
7. Moustafa, A. F. (2014) Int J. Adhesion & Adhesives, 50, pp. 65
8. Park C.; Kim H. (2015) Polymer Science and Technology, 26, pp. 313
9. Nakamura, K.; Mori, H. (2014) Japan Adhesive Society, 50, pp. 13
10. Walter Noll, “Chemistry and Technology of Silicones”, 2nd ed, Academic Press, Inc.
