 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 

 

 


 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 Ecoflex™ 00-50 Product Information | Smooth-On, Inc. 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
 
 


 
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 -->
 
 -->

 -->
 
 
 -->

 -->
 
 
 -->

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Main Menu 
 Home  › 
 Applications  › 
 Products  › 
 How-To  › 
 Support  › 
 Material Calculators  › 
 Search 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ‹ Back to Main Menu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Contents 
 Overview 
 Features Gallery Instructions Related Products 
 
 Purchase 
 USA Distributor  › 
 Global Distributor  › 
 Smooth-On Store  › 
 -->
 
 


 
 Ecoflex™ 00-50 
 
 
 
 *NOTE: Product Packaging May Vary 
 › Technical Bulletin and SDS 
 
 Ecoflex™ rubbers are platinum-catalyzed silicones that are versatile and easy to use.  Ecoflex™ rubbers are mixed 1A:1B by weight or volume and cured at room temperature with negligible shrinkage. Low viscosity ensures easy mixing and de-airing, or you can choose to mix and dispense using our convenient dispensing cartridges. Cured rubber is very soft, very strong and very “stretchy”, stretching many times its original size without tearing and will rebound to its original form without distortion. 



 
 Features 
 Ecoflex™ rubbers are water white translucent and can be color pigmented with Silc Pig™ pigments for creating a variety of color effects. You can also add Smooth-On’s Silicone Thinner™ to further lower the viscosity. THI-VEX™ silicone thickener can be added by weight to Ecoflex™ silicones for brushable applications. 

 Ecoflex™ rubbers are suitable for a variety of applications including making prosthetic appliances, cushioning for orthotics and special effects applications (especially in animatronics where repetitive motion is required). 

 › Click here for more Ecoflex™ silicone products. 



 
 Gallery 
 
 
 839082923 
 
 
 

 
 Instructions 
 Safety – Use in a properly ventilated area (“room size” ventilation). Wear safety glasses, long sleeves and rubber gloves to minimize contamination risk. Wear vinyl gloves only. Latex gloves will inhibit the cure of the rubber. Store and use material at room temperature (73°F/23°C). Warmer temperatures will drastically reduce working time and cure time. Storing material at warmer temperatures will also reduce the usable shelf life of unused material. These products have a limited shelf life and should be used as soon as possible. 

 Cure Inhibition – Addition-cure silicone rubber may be inhibited by certain contaminants in or on the pattern to be molded resulting in tackiness at the pattern interface or a total lack of cure throughout the mold. Latex, tin-cure silicone, sulfur clays, certain wood surfaces, newly cast polyester, epoxy or urethane rubber may cause inhibition. If compatibility between the rubber and the surface is a concern, a small-scale test is recommended. Apply a small amount of rubber onto a non-critical area of the pattern. Inhibition has occurred if the rubber is gummy or uncured after the recommended cure time has passed. 

 Because no two applications are quite the same, a small test application to determine suitability for your project is recommended if performance of this material is in question. 

 To prevent inhibition, one or more coatings of a clear acrylic lacquer applied to the model surface is usually effective. Allow any sealer to thoroughly dry before applying rubber. Note: Even with a sealer, platinum silicones will not work with modeling clays containing heavy amounts of sulfur. Do a small scale test for compatibility before using on your project. 

 Applying A Release Agent - Although not usually necessary, a release agent will make demolding easier when pouring into or over most surfaces. Ease Release™ 200 is a proven release agent for use with silicone rubber. Mann Ease Release™ products are available from Smooth-On or your Smooth-On distributor. 

 IMPORTANT: To ensure thorough coverage, lightly brush the release agent with a soft brush over all surfaces of the model. Follow with a light mist coating and let the release agent dry for 30 minutes. 

 If there is any question about the effectiveness of a sealer/release agent combination, a small-scale test should be made on an identical surface for trial. 

 
 MEASURING & MIXING - Before you begin, pre-mix Part B thoroughly. After dispensing required amounts of Parts A and B into mixing container (1A:1B by volume or weight), mix thoroughly for 3 minutes making sure that you scrape the sides and bottom of the mixing container several times. After mixing parts A and B, vacuum degassing is recommended to eliminate any entrapped air in liquid rubber. Your vacuum pump must pull a minimum of 29 inches of mercury (or 1 Bar / 100 KPa). Leave enough room in container for material expansion. Vacuum material until it rises, breaks and falls. Vacuum for 1 minute after material falls. 

 
 For best results, pour your mixture in a single spot at the lowest point of the containment field. Let the rubber seek its level up and over the model. A uniform flow will help minimize entrapped air. The liquid rubber should level off at least 1/2” (1.3 cm) over the highest point of the model surface. 

 Curing / Post Curing - Allow rubber to cure as prescribed at room temperature (73°F/23°C) before demolding. Do not cure rubber where temperature is less than 65°F/18°C. Optional: Post curing the mold will aid in quickly attaining maximum physical and performance properties. After curing at room temperature, expose the rubber to 176°F/80°C for 2 hours and 212°F/100°C for one hour. Allow mold to cool to room temperature before using. 

 If Using As A Mold - When first cast, silicone rubber molds exhibit natural release characteristics. Depending on what is being cast into the mold, mold lubricity may be depleted over time and parts will begin to stick. No release agent is necessary when casting wax or gypsum. Applying a release agent such as Ease Release™ 200 (available from Smooth-On) prior to casting polyurethane, polyester and epoxy resins is recommended to prevent mold degradation. 

 Thickening Ecoflex™ Silicones - THI-VEX™ is made especially for thickening Smooth-On’s silicones for vertical surface application (making brush-on molds). Different viscosities can be attained by varying the amount of THI-VEX™ . 

 Thinning Ecoflex™ Silicones - Smooth-On’s Silicone Thinner™ will lower the viscosity of Ecoflex™ silicones for easier pouring and vacuum degassing. A disadvantage is that ultimate tear and tensile are reduced in proportion to the amount of Silicone Thinner™ added. It is not recommended to exceed 10% by weight of total system (A+B). 

 Mold Performance & Storage - The physical life of the mold depends on how you use it (materials cast, frequency, etc.). Casting abrasive materials such as concrete can quickly erode mold detail, while casting non-abrasive materials (wax) will not affect mold detail. Before storing, the mold should be cleaned with a soap solution and wiped fully dry. Two part (or more) molds should be assembled. Molds should be stored on a level surface in a cool, dry environment. 
 
 
 Related Categories: 
 Silicone Rubber - Platinum Cure , Skin Safe FX Materials 

 
 Related Series: 
 Ecoflex™ Series – Super-Soft, Addition Cure Silicone Rubbers 

 






 
 Related Products 
 
 
 
 
 Ease Release™ 200 
 
 General Purpose Spray Release Agent 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Ease Release™ 205 
 
 General Purpose Liquid Release Agent 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 SuperSeal™ 
 
 Liquid Sealer 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Manual Dispensing Guns 
 
 For Dispensing 2-Component Material in Cartridges 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 400mL Electric Dispensing Gun 
 
 For Dispensing 2-Component Material in Cartridges 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Mixing Containers 
 
 Graduated Container Style Mixing and Measuring Cups 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 THI-VEX™ 
 
 For Thickening Smooth-On Silicones 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Silicone Thinner™ 
 
 Silicone Rubber Thinning Fluid 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Glow Worm™ 
 
 Long Lasting Glow-in-the-Dark Powder 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 NOVOCS™ Gloss 
 
 Silicone Solvent 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 NOVOCS™ Matte 
 
 Silicone Solvent 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Plat-Cat™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Accelerator 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Psycho Paint™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Paint Base 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Silc Pig™ 
 
 Pigments for Coloring Silicone 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 Slacker™ 
 
 Tactile Mutator 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 SLO-JO™ 
 
 Platinum Silicone Cure Retarder 
 ›  View Product 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Buy Now From 
 
 USA Distributor  › 
 Global Distributor  › 
 Find a Distributor  › 
 Smooth-On Store  › 
 



 
 Available Sizes 
 
 Trial Size Unit (2 lbs. / 0.91 kg.) 
 1 Gallon Unit (16 lbs. / 7.26 kg.) 
 5 Gallon Unit (80 lbs. / 36.29 kg.) 
 400mL Cartridge (1 lbs. / 0.45 kg.) 
 55 Gallon Unit (880 lbs. / 399.17 kg.) 
 
 (Not all sizes may be available online) 
 How much material will you need? 
 Use our Material Calculators  › 
 





 
 Documentation 
 Technical Bulletin | SDS | Certifications 
 Documents Library  › 
 
 
 
 Related Documents 
 
 Technical Bulletin  › Safety Data Sheet  › Skin Safety Certification  › 
 
-->






 
 Technical Data 
 
 Data At-A-Glance 
 
 
 
 Mix Ratio By Volume 
 
 1A:1B 
 
 
 
 Mix Ratio By Weight 
 
 1A:1B 
 
 
 
 Pot Life 
 
 18 minutes 
 
 
 
 Cure Time 
 
 3 hours 
 
 
 
 Shore 00 Hardness 
 
 00-50 
 
 
 
 Specific Gravity 
 
 1.07 g/cc 
 
 
 
 Specific Volume 
 
 25.9 cu. in./lb. 
 
 
 
 Tensile Strength 
 
 315 psi 
 
 
 
 100% Modulus 
 
 12 psi 
 
 
 
 Elongation @ Break 
 
 980 % 
 
 
 
 Die B Tear Strength 
 
 50 pli 
 
 
 
 Color 
 
 Translucent 
 
 
 
 Useful Temperature (min) 
 
 -65 °F 
 
 
 
 Useful Temperature (max) 
 
 450 °F 
 
 
 
 Shrinkage 
 
 
 
 
 
 Catalyst 
 
 Platinum 
 
 
 
 Mixed Viscosity 
 
 
 8,000 cps 
 
 How does this material compare to others? 
 Use Our Compare Tool  › 
 


 
 For Industrial Use Only.
 Keep Out of the Reach of Children.
 


 
 

 
 
 
 About Smooth-On, Inc. 
 You may never have heard of us, but you've seen our products at work. If you've ever been to the movies, admired a piece of sculpture, marveled at detailed architectural ornamentation or used a telephone; then you've encountered the handiwork of people who use Smooth-On rubbers, plastics, foams and other products to turn their ideas into 3-dimensional reality. Learn more about us › 
 
 Facebook 
 Twiter 
 Instagram 
 YouTube 
 Pinterest 
 TikTok 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
 
 Contact Information 
 5600 Lower Macungie Road Macungie, PA 18062 
 Seminar Entrance 
 1725 Willow Lane East Texas, PA 18046 
 Main Phone and Order Desk (610) 252-5800 
 or toll-free: (800) 762-0744 
 Fax (610) 252-6200 
 Contact Our Material Support Team 
 
 
 
 
 Find a Distributor 
 Buy Online – Smooth-On Store Terms & Conditions of Sale / Returns Policy 
 Product Quality and Performance 
 Materials Shelf Life Warranty 
 Technical Assistance Policy 
 Privacy Policy 
 Cookie Policy 
 ESG - Environmental, Social, & Governance 
 Holiday Hours 
 Contact Us 
 Employment 
 Promotional Media 
 Useful Reference Guides 
 
 
 
 
 Facebook 
 Twiter 
 Instagram 
 YouTube 
 Pinterest 
 TikTok 
 LinkedIn 
 
 
©2026 Smooth-On, Inc. All rights reserved. Use of this website is subject to our terms of use.
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 
 
 
 500 Internal Server Error 
 
 
 Internal Server Error 
 The server encountered an internal error or misconfiguration and was unable to complete your request. 
 Error has been logged. 
 
 

