Article

A Comprehensive Method with Verification for Characterizing
the Visco-Hyperelastic Material Model of Polyurethane Foam of
Passenger Car Seats
Jianjiao Deng 1,† , Zunming Wang 2,† , Yi Qiu 3, *, Xu Zheng 2, * , Zuofeng Pan 1 , Jingbao Zhao 1 , Yuting Ma 1 ,
Yabao Li 1 and Chi Liu 2

                                            1   State Key Laboratory of Advanced Vehicle Integration and Control, China FAW Group Co., Ltd.,
                                                Changchun 130011, China; dengjianjiao@faw.com.cn (J.D.); panzuofeng@faw.com.cn (Z.P.);
                                                zhaojingbao@faw.com.cn (J.Z.); mayuting1@faw.com.cn (Y.M.); liyabao@faw.com.cn (Y.L.)
                                            2   Department of Energy Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China;
                                                zm.wang@zju.edu.cn (Z.W.); chi.liu@zju.edu.cn (C.L.)
                                            3   School of Vehicles and Intelligent Transportation, Fuyao University of Science and Technology,
                                                Fuzhou 350300, China
                                            *   Correspondence: yiqiu@fyust.edu.cn (Y.Q.); zhengxu@zju.edu.cn (X.Z.)
                                            †   The two authors contributed equally to this paper.


                                            Abstract
                                            Polyurethane foam is widely used as a primary filling material in car seats. While it
                                            provides good damping and energy absorption, the mechanical properties are complex but
                                            play a vital role in vibration attenuation and vehicle ride comfort. This study proposes a
                                            comprehensive experimental and analytical method to characterize the visco-hyperelastic
                                            properties of seat-grade polyurethane foam. Quasi-static and dynamic compression tests
                                            were conducted on foam blocks to obtain load–deflection curves and dynamic stiffness. A
                                            visco-hyperelastic material model was developed, where the hyperelastic response was
                                            derived via the hereditary integral and difference-stress method, and viscoelastic behavior
                                            was captured using a Prony series fitted to dynamic stiffness data. The model was validated
                                            using finite element simulations, showing good agreement with experimental results in
Academic Editor: Angelo Morro               both static and dynamic conditions. The proposed method enables accurate characterization
Received: 7 July 2025                       of the visco-hyperelastic material properties of seat-grade polyurethane foam.
Revised: 23 July 2025
Accepted: 25 July 2025                      Keywords: polyurethane foam; visco-hyperelastic model; finite element method; parameter
Published: 28 July 2025
                                            identification; stress decomposition
Citation: Deng, J.; Wang, Z.; Qiu, Y.;
Zheng, X.; Pan, Z.; Zhao, J.; Ma, Y.; Li,
Y.; Liu, C. A Comprehensive Method
with Verification for Characterizing
                                            1. Introduction
the Visco-Hyperelastic Material Model
of Polyurethane Foam of Passenger                The passenger car stands as one of the most remarkable inventions in human history,
Car Seats. Materials 2025, 18, 3526.        revolutionizing human life by providing convenience and efficiency. In this context, seat
https://doi.org/10.3390/                    design plays a vital role as it serves as the primary interface between occupants and the
ma18153526
                                            vehicle structure. Undoubtedly, ensuring comfort has a high rank among the most crucial
Copyright: © 2025 by the authors.           aspects of seat design. To comprehensively address this objective, the study of vehicle seat
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.          comfort can be approached from static and dynamic perspectives, depending on whether
This article is an open access article
                                            the seat is subjected to vibrations or not.
distributed under the terms and
                                                 Since the early 1960s, flexible-formed polyurethane foam has emerged as the preferred
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license
                                            material for automotive seat applications [1]. The success of this material can be attributed,
(https://creativecommons.org/               in part, to its remarkable ability to be tailored to meet diverse performance objectives
licenses/by/4.0/).                          required by vehicles worldwide. Particularly, its vibration-damping characteristics can be


Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                            https://doi.org/10.3390/ma18153526
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                            2 of 16



                           easily customized, allowing manufacturers to optimize comfort levels for occupants. In
                           light of this, understanding the physical characteristics of polyurethane foam and their
                           relationship to seat comfort plays an important role in seat design.
                                 The stress–strain behavior of polyurethane foams exhibits nonlinear hyperelastic
                           characteristics, which can be described by various hyperelastic models [2,3]. These mod-
                           els available in the literature have been developed primarily by fitting experimental
                           data of hyperelastic materials, typically by evaluating the strain energy density derived
                           from the Green–Lagrange tensor or Euler–Almansi tensor. In addition to hyperelasticity,
                           polyurethane foams also exhibit viscoelastic behavior, which significantly influences their
                           performance [4,5]. A material is considered memory viscoelastic if its current response de-
                           pends not only on its current loading state but also on its previous state [6]. Yang and Shim
                           proposed a visco-hyperelastic model to capture the large three-dimensional compression
                           behavior of foams under strain rates [7]. Ju et al. developed a visco-hyperelastic consti-
                           tutive model to characterize the quasi-static behavior of polyurethane foam under large
                           deformations, utilizing the difference-stress method to identify the viscoelastic behavior [8].
                                 Describing the characteristics of polyurethane foam using the finite element method
                           poses significant challenges. Firstly, elastomeric behavior is inherently complex, and
                           secondly, the material undergoes large deformations leading to geometric nonlinearity.
                           Numerous studies have conducted numerical simulations based on theoretical constitutive
                           models to determine the material properties. Liang and Chandrashekhara developed
                           a neural network-based strain energy function for compressible elastomeric foam and
                           implemented it in the ABAQUS finite element code [9]. Silber et al. assessed the suitability
                           of a strain energy function proposed by Hill and Storakers for finite hyperelasticity in
                           describing the elastic properties of soft foams [10]. Mircheski et al. created a virtual solid
                           model of the body and driver’s seat and performed virtual testing of the sitting process in
                           ABAQUS [11]. Kim et al. calibrated hyperelastic and hyperfoam constitutive models for
                           rigid polyurethane foam, capturing the characteristics of both soft foam and rubber [12].
                           Grujicic et al. developed detailed finite element models of a car seat and a seated human to
                           investigate their interactions and resulting seating comfort [13]. Oh et al. and Kim et al.
                           incorporated normalized stress relaxation moduli into the static stress–strain curves to
                           predict time-dependent deformation [14,15]. However, they considered viscoelasticity only
                           during relaxation testing, not in static compression tests. Fazekas and Goda proposed
                           numerical stress solutions to calibrate hyper-viscoelastic material models for polymer
                           foams, allowing the separation of time-independent hyperelastic and time-dependent
                           viscoelastic model parameters by mitigating errors [16].
                                 Previous studies have commonly utilized the hyperfoam constitutive model in finite
                           element analyses of low-density foam, with the model parameters determined through
                           curve fitting based on experimental data. However, the hyperfoam model is essentially a
                           hyperelastic model and cannot capture the viscoelastic properties of polyurethane foam. To
                           address this limitation, some researchers attempted to incorporate viscoelasticity directly
                           into hyperelastic models, often by applying stress relaxation functions or simplified as-
                           sumptions. In these approaches, it is typically assumed that the stress–strain response is
                           time-independent, which may neglect the effects of viscous dissipation observed during
                           loading and unloading in compression tests. Moreover, many of these models treat the
                           total stress as a single outcome of both elastic and viscous effects, without explicitly decom-
                           posing the stress components. As a result, they may fail to accurately represent the coupled
                           visco-hyperelastic behavior of polyurethane foam under varying loading conditions.
                                 In this study, a method that independently identifies the hyperelastic and viscoelastic
                           components based on quasi-static and dynamic test data was introduced, enabling accurate
                           parameter determination and numerical implementation. The hyperelastic and viscoelastic
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                             3 of 16



                           components of stress were distinguished and identified independently based on the results
                           of the above-mentioned tests. The results of the numerical calculations demonstrated
                           excellent agreement with the experimental results.

                           2. Experimental Study
                                Quasi-static and dynamic compression tests are commonly performed on low-density
                           polyurethane foam to investigate its mechanical behavior. In this study, we conducted these
                           two tests to acquire the necessary data for modeling and analysis, which also offer valuable
                           insights into the material’s structural performance under varying loading conditions.

                           2.1. Materials
                                A polyurethane foam sample provided by a seat supplier (Changchun Hongda Sponge
                           Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Changchun, China) was selected for the quasi-static and dynamic
                           tests. The foam sample had a density of 65 kg/m3 and a hardness of 150 N, which
                           was determined using the low indentation hardness index as per method D defined in
                           ISO 2439-2008. Table 1 is a summary of the material properties for the polyurethane
                           foam sample.

                           Table 1. Material properties for the polyurethane foam sample.

                                              Foam Type                             Flexible Polyurethane Foam
                                              Isocyanate                                Toluene diisocyanate
                                                Polyol                                       Polyether
                                            Expansion gas                                       CO2
                                               Cell type                                       Open
                                       Dimension (l × w × h)                         80 mm × 80 mm × 80 mm
                                                Density                                      65 kg/m3
                                               Hardness                                        150 N

                           2.2. Quasi-Static Compression Test
                                 The quasi-static tests were conducted using an “INSTRON 5965” (Instron, Norwood,
                           MA, USA) universal material testing system equipped with Bluehill Universal Software
                           (v 4.28), with a force measurement accuracy of ±0.5% and a 2.5 kHz data acquisition rate,
                           which fulfilled the requirements of the quasi-static test. This instrument featured a vertically
                           moving actuator, and the indenter was securely bolted to the crosshead of the actuator to
                           cover the upper surface of the specimen. The experimental setup for the quasi-static test is
                           illustrated in Figure 1.




                           Figure 1. The apparatus used in the quasi-static test.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                           4 of 16



                                In this study, Method E in ISO 2439-2008 was utilized as a reference for the test
                           procedure. The test specimen was positioned on the supporting plate of the apparatus, and
                           an indentation was made on the specimen. To initiate the test, the specimen underwent a
                           preloading phase at a rate of 120 mm/min, resulting in a 60 mm deformation. The load
                           was released at the same rate until the top of the specimen was fully cleared. Subsequently,
                           the specimen was allowed to rest for a period of 5 min. To commence the compression test,
                           the indenter was lowered at a rate of 30 mm/min until a contact force of 4.5 ± 0.5 N was
                           achieved. At this point, the displacement and force indicators were zeroed, establishing
                           the starting point of the compression test. The specimen was then compressed at a rate of
                           120 mm/min to 75% of its thickness, while the force–displacement data was continuously
                           recorded. Following the completion of the compression cycle, there was a controlled
                           interval of 2 s before the decompression cycle commenced. The average value of the 6 tests
                           was taken as the final result for the sample.
                                Initially, the obtained force–displacement test results were transformed into nominal
                           stress–strain test results. The nominal strain was calculated as the change in thickness per
                           unit of the original thickness, while the nominal stress was determined as the force per unit
                           of the original cross-sectional area. The resulting stress–strain curve of the polyurethane
                           foam sample is depicted in Figure 2. As shown in the figure, the stress–strain curve
                           exhibited pronounced nonlinear characteristics. Notably, the loading and unloading paths
                           did not overlap, indicating the presence of viscoelastic properties.




                           Figure 2. The stress–strain curve of the quasi-static compression test of the sample.

                           2.3. Dynamic Compression Test
                                 The dynamic test was conducted using the “INSTRON 8801” (Instron, Norwood,
                           MA, USA) servohydraulic fatigue testing system with a force measurement accuracy of
                           ±0.5%, equipped with two inline and vertically moving actuators. To begin the dynamic
                           test, the supporting plate was mounted on the lower actuator and subsequently locked in
                           place. Next, the indenter was securely bolted to the crosshead of the upper actuator. The
                           experimental setup for the dynamic test is depicted in Figure 3.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                           5 of 16




                           Figure 3. The apparatus used in the dynamic test.

                                 The dynamic test, described in the “ASTM D3574-2017” standard for constant de-
                           flection pounding, served as the reference for this study. The installation and preload
                           procedures were identical to those described in Section 2.2. Subsequently, the specimen was
                           indented at a rate of 30 mm/min to 25% of its thickness. Afterward, the lower actuators
                           produced sinusoidal vibration excitations ranging from 1 to 20 Hz, with frequency intervals
                           of 1 Hz, and at least 20 cycles were executed at each frequency. The amplitude of the
                           vibration excitations at each frequency was set to a peak-to-peak value of 0.25 m/s2 .
                                 The force–displacement test results were likewise transformed into nominal stress–
                           strain data. In the context of dynamic testing, the dynamic complex modulus represents the
                           transfer function between the nominal stress and nominal strain. This complex modulus is
                           characterized by three components: the dynamic modulus, which represents its amplitude;
                           the storage modulus, which corresponds to the real part of the complex modulus; and the
                           loss modulus, which represents its imaginary part. The ratio of the loss modulus to the
                           storage modulus is known as the loss factor, and it can be expressed as follows:

                                                                               E′′
                                                                     tan δ =                                          (1)
                                                                               E′

                           where E′′ is the loss modulus, E′ is the storage modulus, and the angle δ is indicative of the
                           prominence of the viscous effect. The test results are illustrated in Figure 4.




                           Figure 4. The dynamic modulus and phase angle of the sample.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                          6 of 16



                           3. Parameter Identification of the Visco-Hyperelastic Model of the Foam
                                This section presents the parameter determination of the visco-hyperelastic model
                           of low-density foam. To achieve this, the material model of the polyurethane foam was
                           accurately defined, and the parameters of the model were determined. To validate the
                           material model, the static and dynamic tests were simulated by finite element analysis. By
                           comparing the calculated results with the corresponding test results, the accuracy of the
                           proposed model was verified.
                                To predict the mechanical behavior of the foam accurately, a visco-hyperelastic model
                           comprising both nonlinear hyperelastic and viscoelastic components was proposed. “Hy-
                           perfoam” and “Viscoelastic” constitutive models were defined in finite element analysis.
                           Specifically, the stress–strain curve obtained from the quasi-static compression test served
                           as the input for identifying the hyperelastic component, while the dynamic modulus data
                           from the dynamic compression test were used to characterize the viscoelastic behavior.
                           Uniaxial compression test data were required for identifying the model parameters when
                           the “Hyperfoam” model was defined. However, given the assumptions in this study, the
                           stress during quasi-static compression tests encompassed both hyperelastic and viscoelastic
                           components. To cope with this challenge, the hereditary integral viscoelastic model and
                           the difference-stress method were employed to decompose the uniaxial compression stress.
                           The resulting hyperelastic part was utilized as input data for the “Hyperfoam” model.
                           Meanwhile, the Prony series was determined through parameter fitting of the dynamic test
                           results to characterize the viscoelastic behavior for the “Viscoelastic” constitutive model.
                           The entire modeling process, detailing the decomposition and fitting steps, is illustrated in
                           Figure 5.




                           Figure 5. Flow chart of the modeling process.

                           3.1. Hyperelastic Model
                                A modified form of the Hill strain energy potential for constitutive modeling of
                           elastomeric foam materials named “Hyperfoam” in ABAQUS was adopted:

                                                     N    
                                                                           1  el −αi βi
                                                                                            
                                                      2µi αi
                                             U = ∑ 2 λ̂1 + λ̂2 + λ̂3 − 3 +
                                                             αi    αi
                                                                                J         −1                         (2)
                                                 i =1 α i
                                                                           βi

                           where µi , αi , and β i are temperature-dependent material constants to be determined by
                           curve fitting the experimental stress–strain data; N is the curve fitting order.

                                                           − 1
                                                                3
                                                     λ̂k = J th   λk (k = 1, 2, 3) λ̂1 λ̂2 λ̂3 = J el                (3)
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                                   7 of 16



                               Here, λk denotes the principal stretches. The elastic volume ratio, J el , relates the total
                           volume ratio J and the thermal volume ratio J th :

                                                                                        J
                                                                             J el =                                           (4)
                                                                                      J th

                                J th is given by
                                                                                      3
                                                                        J th = 1 + εth                                        (5)

                           where εth is the linear thermal expansion strain, which is obtained from the temperature
                           and the isotropic thermal expansion coefficient.
                                When the thermal effect is not considered, which is the case in this paper, J el = J and
                           λ̂k = λk .
                                It is worth noting that this part only introduced the hyperelastic constitutive model
                           that was utilized in finite element analysis. The hyperfoam constitutive model was not
                           employed for parameter fitting during the determination of the hyperelastic component of
                           the stress from the quasi-static test.

                           3.2. Viscoelastic Model
                                Two viscoelastic models are introduced in this paper. To distinguish the quasi-static
                           stress, the hereditary integral model, in conjunction with the difference-stress method,
                           was employed. On the other hand, for determining the Prony series with the dynamic
                           compression test, the generalized Maxwell viscoelastic model was utilized.
                                The viscoelastic stress in this study was characterized using a hereditary integral
                           model, which has been extensively utilized in previous research [17–19]. By employing the
                           same loading and unloading parameters, this model effectively separated the stress during
                           the quasi-static compression test through an analytical approach:
                                              
                                                                 Rt 2      − β i (t−τ ) ε ( τ ) dτ                     T
                                                                  0 ∑ αi e                                      0≤t≤
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                              
                                                                   i =1                                               2
                                   σv (t) =        T                                                                          (6)
                                                        2                              2                        T
                                              
                                               R   2 ∑ α e− βi (t−τ ) ε(τ )dτ + R t ∑ α e− βi (t−τ ) ε(τ )dτ     ≤t≤T
                                              
                                                 0        i                       T      i
                                                                                                                2
                                                      i =1                           i =1
                                              
                                              
                                                                                   2
                                 ε is the strain in the test, and σv is the predicted viscoelastic stress response of the test.
                           αi is the ith complex number that represents the viscoelastic residue. β i is the ith complex
                           number that represents the viscoelastic mode.
                                 To acquire the constitutive model parameters essential for the finite element analysis,
                           the generalized Maxwell model was chosen and represented using the Dirichlet–Prony
                           series. These parameters were determined through dynamic compression tests. The
                           generalized Maxwell model comprises n + 1 constituent elements in parallel, which consist
                           of n Maxwell models along with an isolated spring, as depicted in Figure 6.




                           Figure 6. A schematic of the generalized Maxwell model.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                                   8 of 16



                           3.3. Determining the Hyperelastic Component of the Model
                                 During the quasi-static test, the hyperelastic model effectively captured the mate-
                           rial’s nonlinear elastic behavior, while the hereditary integral model accurately depicted
                           the nonlinear viscoelastic response. By integrating the hyperelastic and hereditary inte-
                           gral models, this study established a visco-hyperelastic framework capable of describ-
                           ing the nonlinear mechanical response of polyurethane foam. The stress response of
                           the visco-hyperelastic model could be decomposed into the hyperelastic part and the
                           viscoelastic part:
                                                                    σ = σe + σv                                    (7)

                           where σ is the total stress response of the process, and σe and σv are the hyperelastic stress
                           and viscoelastic stress, respectively.
                                In this study, the difference-stress method was employed to ascertain the viscoelastic
                           parameters. The essence of the difference-stress method lies in leveraging the symmetry
                           of elastic stress during both loading and unloading processes. As a result, the analytical
                           expression for stress difference between loading and unloading solely encompassed the
                           viscoelastic parameters:

                                             δσ = σe (t1 ) − σe (t2 ) + σv (t1 ) − σv (t2 ) = σv (t1 ) − σv (t2 )             (8)
                                       h   i          h    i
                           where t1 ∈ 0, T2 and t2 ∈ T2 , T are the loading time and unloading time corresponding
                           to the same strain level. During the quasi-static uniaxial compression test, the strain
                           rate remained constant and consistent between the loading and unloading stages. The
                           relationship between stress and time during these stages was described as follows:
                                                                (
                                                                          2ε max
                                                                             T τ         0 ≤ τ ≤ T2
                                                      ε(τ ) =        2ε max              T                                    (9)
                                                                    − T τ + 2ε max       2 ≤τ ≤ T

                           where ε max is the maximum strain. The following relationship between t1 and t2 was not
                           difficult to deduce:
                                                                 t1 + t2 = T                                   (10)

                                Stress difference could be explicitly expressed by t1 , and viscoelastic parameters could
                           be expressed by combining Equations (6), (8), and (10). The viscoelastic parameters were
                           ascertained through a parameter optimization method. Utilizing the nonlinear least-square
                           solver and the trust-region reflective algorithm within the MATLAB optimization tool, the
                           error between the model results and the test data was minimized. To quantify the error
                           and evaluate the fitting accuracy, the root mean square error function was employed:
                                                                s
                                                                    1 n h               i2
                                                                      ∑
                                                                                 (i )      (i )
                                                    RMSE =                 σmod t1 − σexp t1                                 (11)
                                                                    n i =1

                           where σmod is the modeled stress and σexp is the experimental stress. In this study, the
                                                                                                                    (i )
                           computation of these two stresses was conducted at intervals of 1 s. t1 represents the
                           selected discrete time point. The maximum index value n of the loading time i was set to
                           150, corresponding to the completion of loading at 150 s.
                                 The viscoelastic parameters were ultimately obtained and are presented in Table 2. To
                           assess the model’s accuracy, a comparison of stress differences between the model and the
                           test data is depicted in Figure 7.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                                            9 of 16



                                      Table 2. The determined viscoelastic parameters.

       Re (α1 )            Im (α1 )       Re (β1 )        Im (β1 )          Re (α2 )         Im (α2 )            Re (β2 )     Im (β2 )
   −4.85 × 10−3             0.662      5.25 × 10−5      3.45 × 10−6          −3.01                6.25      1.32 × 10−3     2.01 × 10−4




                                      Figure 7. The comparison of stress differences between the model and the test.

                                           The viscoelastic part of the quasi-static test, in both loading and unloading stages, was
                                      calculated based on the obtained viscoelastic parameters. Meanwhile, the hyperelastic part
                                      was computed using Equations (6) and (7). The resultant decomposed hyperelastic and
                                      viscoelastic stresses are illustrated in Figure 8.




                                      Figure 8. The decomposed hyperelastic and viscoelastic stress.

                                      3.4. Determining the Parameters of the Viscoelastic Model
                                           In this section, the parameters of the generalized Maxwell viscoelastic model were
                                      determined through the dynamic modulus test. The relaxation modulus of the generalized
                                      Maxwell model is represented as follows:

                                                                                               t−τ
                                                                                            n        −
                                                                       E(t − τ ) = E∞ + ∑ Er e Tr                                        (12)
                                                                                           r =1

                                      where E∞ represents the equilibrium modulus to maintain the long-term elasticity of the
                                      model. Tr = ηr /Er represents relaxation time. Er is the elastic modulus, and ηr is the
                                      viscosity coefficient.
                                           When a viscoelastic material is subjected to an oscillating strain, the controlled strain
                                      load can be expressed as follows:

                                                                     ε(t) = ε 0 eiωt = ε 0 (cos ωt + i sin ωt)                           (13)
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                               10 of 16



                           where ε 0 is the strain amplitude, and ω is the angular velocity. The dynamic Prony series
                           expression of the generalized Maxwell model can be obtained:

                                                                                n
                                                                                     iωEr ηr
                                                              E∗ (iω ) = E∞ + ∑                                              (14)
                                                                               r =1
                                                                                    iωηr + Er

                                                                   n                          n
                                                                        ω 2 Er ηr2               ω 2 Tr2 Er
                                                 E′ (ω ) = E∞ + ∑       2  2       2
                                                                                     = E∞ + ∑     2 2
                                                                                                                             (15)
                                                                  r =1 ω ηr + Er            r =1 ω Tr + 1
                                                                    n                  n
                                                                         ωEr2 ηr           ωTr Er
                                                       E′′ (ω ) = ∑      2 2     2
                                                                                   = ∑     2 2
                                                                                                                             (16)
                                                                   r =1 ω ηr + Er    r =1 ω Tr + 1

                                 E∗ (iω ) represents the complex modulus, and E′ (ω ) and E′′ (ω ) denote the real and
                           imaginary parts of the complex modulus, respectively. The phase angle δ represents the
                           viscous effect of the material.
                                 For the discrete dynamic modulus frequency domain data, the relaxation time of each
                           Maxwell sub-model was manually preset in advance, and parameters like equilibrium
                           modulus and elastic modulus were determined through fitting the test data. In this study,
                           the relaxation times of each artificially configured Maxwell sub-model were set as 0.01 s,
                           0.1 s, 1 s, 10 s, and 100 s, respectively.
                                 The Prony series parameters, obtained from the storage and loss moduli cyclic test
                           data at M frequencies, were determined by minimizing the error function χ2 to achieve the
                           most accurate fit between the model predictions and the test data:

                                                              M                         
                                                               1  ′    ′ 2
                                                                         
                                                                                   ′′ 2
                                                       χ =∑ 2
                                                          2
                                                                   E −E         ′′
                                                                             + E −E i                                        (17)
                                                              E
                                                          i =1 ∞
                                                                           i

                                    ′       ′′
                           where E and E are the test data. In this paper, M is 20. Prony series were obtained as
                           shown in Table 3.

                           Table 3. The determined Prony series.

                              Relaxation          T1 (s)          T2 (s)       T3 (s)       T4 (s)        T5 (s)       -
                                Time               0.01            0.1           1              10            100      -
                                                 E1 (kPa)       E2 (kPa)     E3 (kPa)      E4 (kPa)     E5 (kPa)    E∞ (kPa)
                             Prony Series
                                                   23.9            19.7         8.99         12.4         8.14        3.05


                           4. Model Validation of the Foam by Finite Element Analysis
                                To validate the constructed material model, the test processes on the foam on a larger
                           scale (400 × 400 × 80 mm), but with the same material properties as in Section 2, were
                           simulated using the finite element method.

                           4.1. Finite Element Model
                                As depicted in Figure 9, the finite element model comprised three primary components.
                           A SIT-BAR commonly employed in seat comfort research was utilized as the indenter.
                           In the previous section, the property definition of polyurethane foam in ABAQUS was
                           briefly introduced. For polyurethane foam, two models were defined: the “Hyperfoam”
                           hyperelastic model and the “Viscoelastic” model. The stress–strain curve obtained from
                           the quasi-static uniaxial compression test (as discussed in Section 3.3) was utilized in the
                           “Hyperfoam” model, with the strain energy potential curve fitting order set to 3. In the
                           “Viscoelastic” model, the Prony series corresponding to each preconfigured relaxation time
                           (from Section 3.4) was employed. To consider the structural damping of polyurethane foam,
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                        11 of 16



                           Rayleigh damping was added to the model. α = 180 and β = 1 × 10−4 were obtained by
                           parameter optimization.




                           Figure 9. The finite element model is composed of the base plate, the polyurethane foam, and
                           the indenter.

                           4.2. Finite Element Analysis
                                 In the quasi-static analysis, the “Visco” step was employed to study problems involv-
                           ing time-dependent material response, with a total time of 240 s. Contact was defined
                           to obtain the contact force between the indenter and the polyurethane foam. All degrees
                           of freedom of nodes on the base plate and the indenter (excluding the Z-direction) were
                           constrained. Following the test process, the indenter was uniformly pressed down 60 mm
                           at a constant speed during the initial 120 s and then moved up at the same speed.
                                 The initial contact and constraint setup for the dynamic process analysis remained
                           consistent with the quasi-static analysis. The dynamic analysis was divided into two
                           steps. In the first step, “Visco”, the indenter descended 20 mm at a constant speed over
                           40 s and then was fixed in position. The second step involved “steady-static dynamics,”
                           where the constraint in the Z-direction of the bottom plate was removed. Displacements
                           corresponding to an amplitude of 0.25 m/s2 were applied in the frequency range of 1–20 Hz,
                           with a frequency interval of 1 Hz.

                           4.3. Results
                                 Figure 10 presents the deformation at the 60 mm indentation obtained through quasi-
                           static analysis. Figure 11 shows the comparison between the contact pressure of the indenter
                           obtained from quasi-static analysis and the nominal stress from the test. Figure 12 displays
                           the comparison of dynamic modulus and phase angle obtained through dynamic analysis
                           with the corresponding test results.




                           Figure 10. The deformation at the indentation of 60 mm by quasi-static analysis.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                          12 of 16




                           Figure 11. The comparison between the reaction forces of the indenter obtained by quasi-static
                           analysis and the test.




                           Figure 12. The comparison between the (a) dynamic modulus, (b) phase angle obtained by dynamic
                           analysis, and the test results.

                           5. Discussion
                                To obtain the hyperelastic part using the hereditary integral model of viscoelastic
                           stress, we employed the trust-region reflective algorithm with tight stopping criteria, which
                           effectively handled the rapidly changing objective function. The error is shown in Figure 13.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                                13 of 16



                           The hereditary integral model had two pairs of complex viscoelastic parameters, totaling
                           eight parameters that significantly influenced the model’s accuracy.




                           Figure 13. The error surfaces of the viscoelastic parameters in the real–imaginary planes.

                                 As depicted in Figure 13, the horizontal and vertical coordinates represented the
                           real and imaginary parts of each parameter, respectively, while the color bar depicted the
                           logarithmic form of the error RMSE in Equation (11). The parameters were varied from 0 to
                           double the determined values, leading to the minimum error consistently emerging at the
                           center of each error surface.
                                 It is evident that surfaces with the same subscript for imaginary parts (α1 and β1 ;
                           α2 and β2 ) exhibited similar patterns. Therefore, we will focus on discussing surfaces
                           with imaginary parts of α1 and α2 below. Regarding surfaces with real parts of α1 and
                           α2 , smaller errors were observed along the diagonal, and the degree of dependence on
                           parameter changes varied for each parameter. As for surfaces with real parts of β1 and β2 , in
                           conjunction with the aforementioned imaginary parts of α1 and α2 , each surface displayed a
                           distinct pattern but exhibited similar characteristics. When the real parts were smaller than
                           the determined values, the error was significantly influenced by the real parts, whereas
                           when the real parts were larger than the determined values, the error was predominantly
                           influenced by the imaginary parts.
                                 Secondly, the analysis result closely matched the experimental result, clearly
                           demonstrating the hysteresis effect. The observed error may mainly arise from the
                           following factors:
                                 1. Polyurethane foam exhibits a high sensitivity to strain rate, primarily caused by the
                           expulsion of air from the foam cells during the deformation of open-cell foams. This aspect
                           was not taken into account in the current study.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                               14 of 16



                                 2. The error may be attributed to the determination of the viscoelastic Prony series
                           based on the dynamic compression test results. The conditions of the dynamic tests, such as
                           preload and vibration amplitude, could potentially influence the final values of the Prony
                           series. Further investigations and refinement of the test conditions may lead to improved
                           accuracy in the model predictions.
                                 Thirdly, it is evident from Figure 12 that incorporating additional damping factors,
                           apart from viscoelastic damping, yielded more accurate results. These additional damping
                           factors are primarily attributed to air passing through the foam at higher frequencies during
                           dynamic tests. Many other researchers have also considered these damping factors in their
                           studies [20,21].
                                 The proposed model demonstrated satisfactory accuracy in the realm of seat com-
                           fort research. Compared with existing visco-hyperelastic models proposed in previous
                           studies, the present work emphasizes a more explicit decomposition of hyperelastic and
                           viscoelastic components through the combination of the hereditary integral model and the
                           difference-stress method. While the model in [7] effectively captures large-strain behavior
                           under dynamic loading, and the model in [8] focuses on quasi-static conditions using
                           the difference-stress method, our approach integrates both quasi-static and dynamic tests,
                           enabling independent identification of each component and facilitating direct implemen-
                           tation in commercial finite element software ABAQUS 2022. This enhances the model’s
                           applicability to practical seat comfort analysis. Moreover, the tests employed in finite
                           element analysis are widely used in seat comfort assessments. The findings of this study
                           provided an accurate representation of the nonlinear and time-dependent behavior of
                           polyurethane foam, which is essential for improving seat comfort prediction. The proposed
                           model may assist in optimizing foam geometry, layering strategies, and material selection
                           in automotive seat design.
                                 For future investigations, additional test modes, such as the vibration transmissibility
                           test, tensile test, and shear test, could be considered to further validate the model. Further-
                           more, the current study focuses on a specific type of polyurethane foam commonly used
                           in car seat applications. While the proposed visco-hyperelastic model effectively captures
                           its mechanical behavior, the applicability of the model to other foam types—such as those
                           with lower viscosity, PUR Polyester, PUR Polyether, or multi-component systems—remains
                           to be investigated. Future work will explore the model’s adaptability and parameter
                           identification procedures for these alternative materials to evaluate its broader applicability.

                           6. Conclusions
                                In this paper, a novel parameter identification method was proposed to accurately
                           characterize the mechanical properties of polyurethane foam for further finite element
                           analysis, using quasi-static and dynamic stiffness tests commonly conducted in the seat
                           comfort analysis. By employing the visco-hyperelastic model, the hyperelastic component
                           of the compression stress in the quasi-static test was determined through the combina-
                           tion of the hereditary integral model and the difference-stress method. The viscoelastic
                           Prony series was derived from the dynamic test using the generalized Maxwell model.
                           The proposed constitutive model, “Hyperfoam,” and the viscoelastic Prony series were
                           implemented in ABAQUS for numerical computations. The results obtained from the
                           quasi-static compression and dynamic compression analyses demonstrated satisfactory
                           accuracy, validating the effectiveness of the proposed method in accurately capturing the
                           behavior of polyurethane foam.

                           Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.D. and X.Z.; Investigation, Z.W., J.Z. and Z.P.; Supervi-
                           sion, C.L., X.Z. and Y.Q.; Writing—original draft, Z.W. and J.D.; Writing—review and editing, C.L.,
                           Y.L. and Y.M. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                                            15 of 16



                                   Funding: This work was supported by the 2023 Open Foundation of the National Key Laboratory of
                                   Advanced Vehicle Integration and Control under Grant RBJ33.

                                   Data Availability Statement: The original contributions presented in this study are included in the
                                   article. Further inquiries can be directed to the corresponding authors.

                                   Conflicts of Interest: The authors Jianjiao Deng, Zuofeng Pan, Jingbao Zhao, Yuting Ma, and Yabao Li
                                   are currently employed by China FAW Group Co., Ltd. and were employed by China FAW Group Co.,
                                   Ltd. while contributing to this manuscript. The authors’ contribution to this work and manuscript
                                   were made independently without any requirement, guidance or input by the employer. The authors
                                   received no financial compensation from any source for the contributions and made to this scientific
                                   work and manuscript.

References
1.    Casati, F.M.; Herrington, R.M.; Broos, R.; Miyazaki, Y. Tailor-ing the performance of molded flexible polyurethane foams for car
      seats. J. Cell. Plast. 1998, 34, 430–466. [CrossRef]
2.    Widdle, R.D.; Bajaj, A.K.; Davies, P. Measurement of the Poisson’s ratio of flexible polyurethane foam and its influence on a
      uniaxial compression model. Int. J. Eng. Sci. 2008, 46, 31–49. [CrossRef]
3.    Zhang, X.F.; Andrieux, F.; Sun, D.Z. Pseudo-elastic description of polymeric foams at finite deformation with stress softening and
      residual strain effects. Mater. Des. 2011, 32, 877–884. [CrossRef]
4.    Joshi, G.; Bajaj, A.K.; Davies, P. Whole-body vibratory response study using a nonlinear multi-body model of seat-occupant
      system with viscoelastic flexible polyurethane foam. Ind. Health 2010, 48, 663–674. [CrossRef]
5.    Rajan, K.P.; Dhilipraj, D.B.; Manikandan, R.; Veena, N.R. Preparation of molded viscoelastic polyurethane foam for pillow
      applications. Cell. Polym. 2011, 30, 13–21. [CrossRef]
6.    Singh, R.; Davies, P.; Bajaj, A.K. Identification of nonlinear and viscoelastic properties of flexible polyurethane foam. Nonlinear
      Dyn. 2003, 34, 319–346. [CrossRef]
7.    Yang, L.M.; Shim, V.P.W. A visco-hyperelastic constitutive description of elastomeric foam. Int. J. Impact Eng. 2004, 30, 1099–1110.
      [CrossRef]
8.    Ju, M.L.; Jmal, H.; Dupuis, R.; Aubry, E. Visco-hyperelastic constitutive model for modeling the quasi-static behavior of poly-
      urethane foam in large deformation. Polym. Eng. Sci. 2015, 55, 1795–1804. [CrossRef]
9.    Liang, G.; Chandrashekhara, K. Neural network based constitutive model for elastomeric foams. Eng. Struct. 2008, 30, 2002–2011.
      [CrossRef]
10.   Silber, G.; Alizadeh, M.; Salimi, M. Large deformation analysis for soft foams based on hyperelasticity. J. Mech. 2010, 26, 327–334.
      [CrossRef]
11.   Mircheski, I.; Kandikjan, T.; Sidorenko, S. Comfort analysis of vehicle driver’s seat through simulation of the sitting process. Tech.
      Gaz. 2014, 21, 291–298.
12.   Kim, S.; Shin, H.; Rhim, S.; Rhee, K.Y. Calibration of hyperelastic and hyperfoam constitutive models for an indentation event of
      rigid polyurethane foam. Compos. Part B Eng. 2019, 163, 297–302. [CrossRef]
13.   Grujicic, M.; Pandurangan, B.; Arakere, G.; Bell, W.C.; He, T.; Xie, X. Seat-cushion and soft-tissue material modeling and a finite
      element investigation of the seating comfort for passenger-vehicle occupants. Mater. Des. 2009, 30, 4273–4285. [CrossRef]
14.   Oh, J.S.; Kim, D.Y.; Kim, T.H.; Kim, H.Y.; Lee, S.H.; Choi, K.Y. Numerical prediction of the viscoelastic deformation of seat foam in
      response to long-term driving. Proc. Inst. Mech. Eng. Part D J. Automob. Eng. 2015, 229, 214–225. [CrossRef]
15.   Kim, D.Y.; Bang, J.H.; Lee, C.A.; Kim, H.Y.; Choi, K.Y.; Lim, B.G. Numerical evaluation of time-dependent sagging for low density
      polyurethane foams to apply the long-term driving comfort on the seat cushion design. Int. J. Ind. Ergon. 2018, 64, 178–187.
      [CrossRef]
16.   Fazekas, B.; Goda, T.J. Numerical stress solutions for the accurate calibration of hyper-viscoelastic material models of polymer
      foams. Int. J. Solids Struct. 2020, 191–192, 390–400. [CrossRef]
17.   Deng, R.; Davies, P.; Bajaj, A.K. A nonlinear fractional derivative model for large uniaxial deformation behavior of polyurethane
      foam. Signal Process. 2006, 86, 2728–2743. [CrossRef]
18.   Jmal, H.; Dupuis, R.; Aubry, E. Quasi-static behavior identification of polyurethane foam using a memory integer model and the
      difference-forces method. J. Cell. Plast. 2011, 47, 447–465. [CrossRef]
19.   Jmal, H.; Ju, M.L.; Dupuis, R.; Aubry, E. Generalization of the memory integer model for the analysis of the quasi-static behaviour
      of polyurethane foams. J. Mech. Sci. Technol. 2014, 28, 4651–4662. [CrossRef]
Materials 2025, 18, 3526                                                                                                         16 of 16



20.   Singh, R.; Davies, P.; Bajaj, A.K. Estimation of the dynamical properties of polyurethane foam through use of Prony series. J.
      Sound Vib. 2003, 264, 1005–1043. [CrossRef]
21.   Azizi, Y.; Bajaj, A.K.; Davies, P.; Sundaram, V. Prediction and verification of the periodic response of a single-degree-of-freedom
      foam-mass system by using incremental harmonic balance. Nonlinear Dyn. 2015, 82, 1933–1951. [CrossRef]


Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
